Science Bowl Astronomy

Multiple Choice

1. The largest circular storm in our solar system is on the surface ofwhich of the following planets?
a. Jupiter 
b. Venus 
c. Uranus 
d. Earth 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
2. The biggest asteroid known is:
a. Vesta 
b. Icarus 
c. Ceres 
d. Eros 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
3. Rounded to the nearest day, the Mercurian year is equal to:
a. 111 days 
b. 88 days 
c. 50 days 
d. 25 days 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
4. One of the largest volcanos in our solar system-if not the largest-isnamed Olympus Mons. This volcano is located on:
a. Jupiter's moon Callisto 
b. Venus 
c. Saturn's moon Titan 
d. Mars 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
5. One Jupiter day is equal to which of the following?
a. 30 hrs 40 min 
b. 9 hrs 50 min 
c. 3 hrs 20 min 
d. 52 hrs 10 min 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
6. The time interval between two successive occurrences of a specifictype of alignment of a planet (or the moon) with the sun and the earth is referred to as:
a. a conjunction 
b. an opposition 
c. a sidereal period 
d. a synodic period. 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
7. Of the following four times, which one best represents the time ittakes energy generated in the core of the sun to reach the surface of the sun and be radiated?
a. Three minutes 
b. Thirty days 
c. One thousand years 
d. One million years 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
8. The sunspot cycle is:
a. 3 years 
b. 11 years 
c. 26 years 
d. 49 years 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
9. The Hertzsprung-Russel Diagram of stars DIRECTLY compareswhat TWO of the following properties of stars?
a. size 
b. temperature 
c. luminosity 
d. density 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
10. The andromeda Galaxy is which of the following types of galaxies?
a. elliptical 
b. spiral 
c. barred-spiral 
d. irregular 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
11. About how many light years across is the Milky Way? Is it:
a. 1,000 
b. 10,000 
c. 100,000 
d. 1,000,000 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
12. Heliocentric (pron: he-lee-o-sen-trik) means around:
a. Jupiter 
b. the Moon 
c. the Sun 
d. Neptune 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
13. Who was the first man to classify stars according to their brightness.Was it:
a. Aristarchus 
b. Pythagorus 
c. Copernicus 
d. Hipparchus 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
14. For what reason was the Schmidt telescope specially built? Was itto serve as:
a. a sky camera 
b. a radio telescope 
c. an optical telescope 
d. a solar telescope 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
15. The greatest distance of a planet from the sun is called what? Is itthe planet's:
a. aphelion (pron: ah-feel-yen) 
b. perihelion (pron: per-eh-heel-yen) 
c. helix 
d. eccentricity 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
16. How is the atmospheric pressure of Mars as compared to theatmospheric pressure of the earth? Is it:
a. about the same as the earth's 
b. about 100 times as great as the earth's 
c. about 1/200th that of the earth's 
d. half as much as that of the earth's 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
17. The planet Jupiter has a mass that is:
a. equal to the combined masses of the earth and Mars 
b. equal to the combined masses of Saturn and Pluto 
c. equal to the combined masses of Saturn, Neptune and Uranus 
d. greater than the combined masses of all of the planets 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
18. Which one of the following moon features is named Copernicus? Isit a:
a. sea 
b. crater 
c. mountain range 
d. rill 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
19. A typical galaxy, such as our Milky Way galaxy, contains how manybillion stars? Is it approximately:
a. 10 billion 
b. 40 billion 
c. 200 billion 
d. 800 billion 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
20. Refracting telescopes always contain which one of the following?
a. mirrors 
b. lenses 
c. television systems 
d. film 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
21. A comet's tail points in which direction?
a. toward the sun 
b. toward the earth 
c. behind the comet in its orbit 
d. away from the sun 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
22. Spectral line splitting due to the influence of magnetic fields iscalled:
a. Boltzmann Effect 
b. Zeeman Effect 
c. Planck Effect 
d. Zanstra's Effect 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
23. Which of the following statements is true for BOTH Saturn andJupiter?
a. both rotate faster than the Earth 
b. both rotate slower than the Earth 
c. only one rotates rapidly while the other rotates very slowly 
d. their periods of rotation are linked to their period of revolution 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
24. Which of the following is true for ORION? Orion is:
a. the brightest star in the sky 
b. a constellation 
c. the name given to a NASA spacecraft 
d. an asteroid 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
25. Which of the following men wrote the book "On the Revolutions ofthe Heavenly Spheres"?
a. Kepler 
b. Euclid 
c. Copernicus 
d. Newton 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
26. Which of the following is TRUE for Retrograde motion?Retrograde motion is:
a. caused by epicycles 
b. undergone only by superior planets 
c. undergone only by inferior planets 
d. an effect due to the projection of planet orbits onto the sky 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
27. Beads of light visible around the rim of the moon at the beginningand end of a total solar eclipse are called:
a. Lunar Beads 
b. Solar Beads 
c. Baily's Beads 
d. Rim Beads 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
28. Whereas latitude and longitude are the coordinates of places onearth, the coordinates used for star locations are two of the following, choose two.
a. ascension 
b. right ascension 
c. altitude 
d. declination 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
29. The 2.7 Kelvin cosmic background radiation is concentrated in the:
a. radio wavelengths 
b. infrared 
c. visible 
d. ultraviolet 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
30. If you were watching a star collapsing to form a black hole, the lightwould disappear because it:
a. is strongly redshifted 
b. is strongly blueshifted 
c. its color suddenly becomes black 
d. none of the above 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
31. In which spectral region is it possible for astronomers to observethrough clouds?
a. visual 
b. radio 
c. ultraviolet 
d. x-ray 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
32. The Magellanic Clouds are
a. irregular galaxies 
b. spiral galaxies 
c. elliptical galaxies 
d. large clouds of gas and dust 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
33. The VISUAL aurora consists of luminous arcs, rays or bands in thenight sky, usually confined to high latitudes and located in the:
a. troposphere 
b. stratosphere 
c. ozonosphere 
d. ionosphere 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
34. This yellow-white, spectral F-type star is located in the constellationCarina south of the ecliptic. It ranks second in apparent brightness among the stars. Is this star:
a. Canopus 
b. Alpha Centauri 
c. Castor 
d. Rigel 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
35. When two heavenly bodies occupy the same longitude, the bodiesare said to be in:
a. sympathy 
b. conjunction 
c. parallel 
d. series 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
36. The study of the origin and evolution of the universe is known as:
a. tomography 
b. cystoscopy 
c. cryology 
d. cosmology 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
37. What percentage of the Sun's mass has been converted to energy?
a. 50% 
b. 1% 
c. 2% 
d. .001% (read: one-thousandth of a percent) 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
38. According to Kepler's Laws, all orbits of the planets are:
a. ellipses 
b. parabolas 
c. hyperbolas 
d. square 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
39. According to Kepler's Laws, the cube of the mean distance of aplanet from the sun is proportional to the:
a. area that is swept out 
b. cube of the period 
c. square of the period 
d. fourth power of the mean distance 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
40. What type of visible star is the coolest?
a. O (pron: oh) 
b. A 
c. G 
d. M 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
41. Which type of star is maintained by the pressure of an electron gas?
a. Main Sequence Star 
b. White Dwarf 
c. Neutron Star 
d. Black Hole 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
42. In our solar system, which planet has a moon with a mass closest toits own?
a. Earth 
b. Mars 
c. Jupiter 
d. Pluto 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
43. Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto are satellites of what planet?
a. Jupiter 
b. Saturn 
c. Neptune 
d. Uranus 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
44. The universe is estimated to be between ten and twenty billion yearsold. This estimate is based on the value of which constant?
a. The mass of the Earth 
b. The speed of light 
c. The Hubble Constant 
d. The mass of the electron 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
45. Which of the following first hypothesized that the Earth orbited thesun?
a. Alexander the Great 
b. Copernicus 
c. Socrates 
d. Tycho Brahe 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
46. The LAST manned moon flight was made in what year?
a. 1971 
b. 1972 
c. 1973 
d. 1974 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
47. The cosmic background radiation, a remnant of the Big Bang, is atwhat temperature?
a. 100K 
b. 0K 
c. 5.3K 
d. 2.7K 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
48. A planet is said to be at aphelion when it is:
a. closest to the sun 
b. farthest from the sun 
c. at it's highest point above the ecliptic 
d. at it's lowest point below the ecliptic 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
49. At any time we may describe the position of an inferior planet by theangle it makes with the sun as seen from the earth. This angle is called the:
a. ecliptic (pron: eh-klip-tik) 
b. epicycle 
c. elongation 
d. proxima 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
50. Which of the following planets has the greatest eccentricity?
a. Pluto 
b. Jupiter 
c. Mars 
d. Mercury 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
51. The largest moon in our solar system has an atmosphere that isdenser than the atmosphere of Mars. The name of this moon is:
a. Titan 
b. Ganymede 
c. Triton 
d. Io (pron: I - O) 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
52. On which of the following planets would the sun rise in the west?
a. Saturn 
b. Pluto 
c. Mercury 
d. Venus 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
53. Which planet seems to be turned on its side with an axis tilt of 98degrees?
a. Uranus 
b. Pluto 
c. Neptune 
d. Saturn 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
54. The angle that the full moon takes up in the night sky is equal towhich of the following values?
a. 1/8 degree 
b. 1/2 degrees 
c. 1 degree 
d. 2 degrees 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
55. The period from one full moon to the next is:
a. 30.3 days 
b. 30 days 
c. 29.5 days 
d. 28 days 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
56. When a superior planet is at opposition it is making an angle of howmany degrees with the sun?
a. 0 degrees 
b. 45 degrees 
c. 90 degrees 
d. 180 degrees 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
57. The word Albedo (pron: al-BEE-doe) refers to which of thefollowing?
a. The wobbling motion of a planet 
b. The amount of light a planet reflects 
c. The phase changes of a planet 
d. The brightness of a star 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
58. Galileo discovered something about Venus with his telescope thatshook the old theories. Which of the following was Galileo's discovery?
a. Venus was covered in clouds 
b. Venus had phases like the moon 
c. Venus' surface was similar to the earth's 
d. Venus had retrograde motion 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
59. Cassini's division is described by which of the following?
a. A break in the rings of Saturn 
b. A break in the clouds of Jupiter 
c. The distance between the first two moons of Jupiter 
d. The distance between the Van Allen belts 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
60. Name the phase that the moon is in for each type of eclipse, lunarand solar:
a. Full moon for both phases 
b. New moon for both phases 
c. Full moon for lunar and new moon for solar 
d. New moon for lunar and full moon for solar 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
61. The orbital plane of the moon is how many degrees inclined from theecliptic?
a. 15 degrees 
b. 10 degrees 
c. 5 degrees 
d. 0 degrees 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
62. In the lowest level of the photosphere of the Sun, the temperature is:
a. 1,000 degrees Kelvin 
b. 6,000 degrees Kelvin 
c. 10,000 degrees Kelvin 
d. 13,000 degrees Kelvin 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
63. A Galactic year is the length of time that it takes our sun to orbit thegalaxy. In Earth years, how long is a Galactic year?
a. 100 million years 
b. 230 million years 
c. 620 million years 
d. 940 million years 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
64. A first magnitude star is how many times brighter than a secondmagnitude star?
a. 2.5 
b. 7.3 
c. 10.0 
d. 12.0 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
65. Which of the following constellations has more bright stars than anyother constellation?
a. Big Dipper 
b. Cassiopeia 
c. Orion 
d. Scorpion 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
66. A line through the three stars in Orion's belt points toward whichone of the following stars?
a. Mizor 
b. Polaris 
c. Sirius 
d. Rigel 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
67. A pulsar is actually a:
a. black hole 
b. white dwarf 
c. red giant 
d. neutron star 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
68. In the Milky Way there are approximately
a. 2 million stars 
b. 100 million stars 
c. 400 million stars 
d. 200 billion stars. 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
69. Which of the following words best describes the shape of ourgalaxy?
a. spherical 
b. elliptical 
c. spiral 
d. barred-spiral 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
70. On February 9, 1991, ROSAT, an orbiting observatory, finished thefirst ever all-sky survey of:
a. radio waves. 
b. infrared radiation. 
c. ultraviolet radiation. 
d. x-rays. 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
71. The ring nebula is an example of a planetary nebula. It is:
a. a ring of planets circling a star. 
b. an expanding ring of gas released from a dying star. 
c. a contracting ring of gas and dust falling circling into a massive object. 
d. a ring of stars in a circular orbit. 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
72. A black hole with the mass of the earth would be the size of:
a. the Sun 
b. the Moon 
c. a bowling ball 
d. a marble 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
73. Whose paradox asks why the sky is not ablaze with starlight if theuniverse is infinite in extent and uniformly filled with stars?
a. Olber's 
b. Greigheim's 
c. Schuller's 
d. Miller's 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
74. Most stars are cooler than the sun. These stars, the planets,interstellar clouds and star-forming regions emit most of their radiant energy in the:
a. visible 
b. x-ray region 
c. ultraviolet 
d. infrared 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
75. Astronomers use cepheids principally as measures of what? Is it:
a. size 
b. speed 
c. chemical composition 
d. distance 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
76. Where are most asteroids located? Is it between:
a. Jupiter and Saturn 
b. Mars and Venus 
c. Earth and Mars 
d. Mars and Jupiter 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
77. Of the following phases of the moon, which is the one at which aspring tide occurs? Is it
a. new 
b. new gibbous 
c. first quarter 
d. new crescent 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
78. Which of the following can be used to see through Venus's clouds?
a. refracting telescopes 
b. radar 
c. x-rays 
d. ultraviolet 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
79. Primary cosmic radiation is characterized by:
a. an intensity which is essentially constant in time 
b. isotropic in space 
c. very energetic particles 
d. all of the above. 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
80. Globular clusters in our galaxy are primarily found:
a. in the spiral arms. 
b. distributed throughout the disk including regions between the spiral arms. 
c. in the bulge at the center of our galaxy. 
d. in the halo of our galaxy. 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
81. The phenomenon that causes the Moon's rotation about it's own axisto be equal to the Moon's period of revolution about the Earth is called:
a. Haner Effect 
b. Landow Effect 
c. Orbital Synchronization 
d. Tidal Friction 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
82. The Sun rotates about it's own axis approximately:
a. once every 60 minutes. 
b. once every 24 hours. 
c. once every 365 days. 
d. varies with solar latitude. 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
83. PRESENTLY, what is the farthest planet from the sun?
a. Pluto 
b. Neptune 
c. Uranus 
d. None of the above 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
84. Andromeda, the nearest galaxy which is similar to the Milky Way, ishow far from the Earth? Is it:
a. 200,000 light years 
b. 2,000,000 light years 
c. 20,000,000 light years 
d. 200,000,000 light years 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
85. The angular position of an object measured from a fixed point alongthe horizon is its:
a. azimuth (pron: AZ-i-myuth) 
b. apogee (pron: AP-a-jee) 
c. zenith 
d. declination 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
86. The precession of the Earth refers to the:
a. change from night to day. 
b. Earth's motion around the sun. 
c. change in orientation of the Earth's axis. 
d. effect of the moon on the Earth's orbit. 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
87. The angular position of the sun at solar noon with respect to theplane of the equator is the definition of:
a. index of refraction 
b. solar azimuth angle (pron: AZ-i-muth) 
c. latitude 
d. solar declination angle 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
88. Which of the following men was the first to make systematic use of atelescope in astronomy?
a. Copernicus 
b. Tycho Brahe 
c. Kepler 
d. Galileo 
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
89. The Magellanic cloud is a:
a. nebula 
b. galaxy 
c. super nova remnant 
d. star cluster 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
90. The comet known as Halley's Comet has an average period of:
a. 56 years 
b. 66 years 
c. 76 years 
d. 86 years
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
91. Which one of the following planets has no moons?
a. Mars 
b. Neptune 
c. Venus 
d. Jupiter
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
92. In kilometers, the earth's average distance from the sun is roughlywhich of the following distances?
a. 250 million 
b. 91 million 
c. 150 million 
d. 350 million
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
93. The gravity on the moon is what fraction of the gravity on the earth?
a. 1/3 
b. 2/3 
c. 1/6 
d. 1/10
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
94. The rocks that enter the earth's atmosphere and blaze a trail all theway to the ground and do not burn up completely are known as:
a. meteorites 
b. meteors 
c. asteroids 
d. none of these
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
95. 95% of the Martian atmosphere is composed of what substance?
a. Carbon dioxide 
b. Nitrogen 
c. Argon 
d. Carbon monoxide
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
96. What is the motion called when a planet seems to be movingwestward in the sky
a. Retrograde 
b. Parallax 
c. Opcentric 
d. Reverse parallax
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
97. With which one of the following astronomical objects are meteorshowers associated
a. Asteroids 
b. Comets 
c. Planets 
d. None of the above
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
98. In what year did Galileo first use an optical telescope to study themoon?
a. 1492 
b. 1611 
c. 1212 
d. 1743
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
99. A device which would not work on the Moon is:
a. thermometer 
b. siphon 
c. spectrometer 
d. spring balance
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
100. The size of the average meteor is about the size of which of thefollowing objects
a. a grain of sand. 
b. a baseball 
c. a basket ball 
d. a car 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
101. Geocentric means around
a. Jupiter 
b. the Earth 
c. the Moon
d. the Sun 
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
102. A comet's apparent size does which of the following as the cometgets closer to the Sun
a. decrease 
b. remain the same 
c. increase
d. none of the above
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
103. The Phythagoreans appear to have been the first to have taught thatthe Earth is
a. at the center of the Universe. 
b. spherical in shape. 
c. orbits around the sun. 
d. flat with sharp edges.
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
104. The light-gathering power of a reflecting telescope depends onwhich of the following
a. the area of its objective mirror 
b. focal length of its eyepiece 
c. focal length of its objective mirror 
d. the ratio of the focal lengths of objective and eyepiece 
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
105. Who first used Tycho Brahe's observational data on the planet Marsto determine that Mars actually traversed an elliptical orbit, the sun being located at one of thefoci?
a. Kepler 
b. Galileo 
c. Hipparchus 
d. Aristarchus
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
106. Approximately how many times could a beam of light travel aroundthe earth in one second?
a. 3 times 
b. 7.5 times 
c. 15 times 
d. 25 times
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
107. The diameter of the earth is approximately:
a. 5,000 kilometers 
b. 13,000 kilometers 
c. 18,000 kilometers 
d. 25,000 kilometers
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
108. The average density of the earth is approximately:
a. half the density of water 
b. twice the density of water 
c. five and a half times the density of water. 
d. ten times the density of water
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
109. Of the following colors, which is bent least in passing through aprism?
a. orange 
b. violet 
c. green 
d. red
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
110. In a reflecting telescope where in the tube is the objective mirrorplaced?
a. the top to the tube 
b. the middle of the tube 
c. the bottom of the tube 
d. the side of the tube
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
111. What is the approximate age of our sun?
a. 1 billion years 
b. 2 billion years 
c. 5 billion years 
d. 20 billion years
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
112. What does it mean when someone says that comets have eccentricorbits? Does it mea
a. they have open orbits 
b. they have nearly circular orbits 
c. their orbits are unpredictable 
d. the sun is far from the foci of their orbits
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
113. Which of the following planets has the lowest density?
a. Mercury 
b. Venus 
c. Saturn 
d. Mars
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
114. What causes the gas tail of a comet to always point away from thesun?
a. solar wind 
b. air pressure 
c. centrifugal force 
d. gravity
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
115. What are Saturn's rings composed of?
a. completely connected solid masses 
b. billions of tiny solid particles 
c. mixtures of gases 
d. highly reflective cosmic clouds
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
116. Of the following, which is the only planet which CANNOT be seenwith the unaided eye
a. Jupiter 
b. Mars 
c. Neptune 
d. Saturn
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
117. Accretion is
a. the gradual accumulation of matter in one location usually due to gravity. 
b. the process of moon formation for planets. 
c. the process of matter accumulation due to centripetal force. 
d. the disintegration of matter.
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
118. If we look at a galaxy that is moving AWAY from us, we find thatthe wavelengths of light coming from this galaxy are:
a. lengthened 
b. shortened 
c. unchanged
d. none of the above
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
119. The age of the Universe in billions of years is approximately
a. 500 
b. 3.5 
c. 18 
d. 1000
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
120. The reason we call an astronomical body a black hole is that
a. it is a huge star which appears black at its center. 
b. its gravity is so high that it absorbs its own photons. 
c. it represents lack of matter in a portion of space. 
d. it is a dead planet.
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
121. A blue shift means a Doppler shift of light from a(an)
a. receding star. 
b. blue star. 
c. approaching star. 
d. fixed star.
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
122. The first and largest asteroid discovered was:
a. Pallas. 
b. Juno. 
c. Ceres. 
d. Trojan.
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
123. Which of the following Saturnian satellites is known to possessan atmosphere
a. Tethys 
b. Titan 
c. Dione 
d. Mimas
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
124. The Crab Nebula consists of the remnants of a supernova which wasobserved by
a. Brahe in 1572. 
b. Kepler and Galileo in 1604. 
c. the Chinese in 1054 A.D. 
d. several ancient civilizations in 236 B.C.
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
125. The atmosphere of Venus contains mostly
a. oxygen 
b. carbon dioxide 
c. nitrogen 
d. water
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
126. What causes a planet to have a magnetic field?
a. the dynamo effect. 
b. the Doppler effect. 
c. the Photoelectric effect. 
d. its rotation about its sun.
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
127. On the celestial sphere, the annual path of the Sun is called
a. the eclipse path. 
b. ecliptic. 
c. diurnal. 
d. solstice.
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
128. The angular distance between a planet and the Sun, as viewed fromthe Earth, is calle
a. angle of inclination. 
b. elongation. 
c. latitude. 
d. opposition.
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
129. Which of the following has the greatest density?
a. the sun 
b. Venus 
c. Mars 
d. Jupiter
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
130. Mercury and Venus are said to be inferior planets because:
a. they are smaller than the other planets that circle the Sun. 
b. their orbits are slower than the Earth's orbit. 
c. their orbits are faster than the Earth's orbit. 
d. their orbits are inside of the Earth's orbit.
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
131. Galileo made many astronomical discoveries. Which of thefollowing was NOT one of his discoveries
a. the phases of Venus 
b. mountains on Venus 
c. moons of Jupiter 
d. sunspots
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
132. Identify the ripples in the overall geometry of space produced by theacceleration of moving objects
a. Doppler effect. 
b. granulation. 
c. gravitational waves. 
d. elongation.
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
133. Which one of the following planets has less mass than the Earth?
a. Jupiter 
b. Saturn 
c. Uranus 
d. Pluto
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
134. Which of the following planets is NOT a terrestrial planet?
a. Earth 
b. Jupiter 
c. Mars 
d. Mercury
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
135. Why do we see lunar eclipses much more often than solar eclipses?
a. Lunar eclipses occur more often than solar eclipses. 
b. Lunar eclipses last longer than solar eclipses. 
c. The lunar eclipse is visible to much more of the Earth than a solar eclipse. 
d. The moon is closer to the Earth than the sun.
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
136. A starlike object with a very large redshift is a
a. neutron star. 
b. nova. 
c. quasar. 
d. supernova.
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
137. The apparent magnitude of an object in the sky describes its
a. size 
b. magnification 
c. brightness 
d. distance
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
138. The Van Allen belts are
a. caused by the refraction of sunlight like rainbows. 
b. charged particles trapped in the Earth's magnetic field. 
c. caused by the reflection of polar snow. 
d. caused by precession.
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
139. A coordinate system based on the ecliptic system is especially usefulfor the studies o
a. planets 
b. stars 
c. the Milky Way 
d. galaxies
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
140. When originally discovered, how were planets such as Plutodistinguished from the multitude of stars in the sky?
a. The planets appear to be bigger than stars 
b. The planets are brighter than most stars 
c. The planets move relative to the stars 
d. The planets are close to the ecliptic
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
141. The moon was closer to earth in March 1993 than it has been for adozen years. This near distance was abou
a. 200,000 miles
b. 216,000 miles
c. 231,000 miles
d. 240,000 miles
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
142. What is the name of the spacecraft that recently used Jupiter'sgravitational field to redirect its course toward the Sun's polar regions?
a. Magellan 
b. Ulysses 
c. Galileo 
d. Challenger
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
143. The mean distance of the earth from the sun in astronomical units is:
a. 3.7 
b. 10 
c. 1 
d. 101
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
144. What process produces a star's energy?
a. hydrogen and oxygen combustion 
b. nuclear fusion 
c. neutron beta decay 
d. nuclear fission
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
145. On which planet can one find the solar system's largest volcano?
a. Earth 
b. Neptune 
c. Mars 
d. Jupiter
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
146. What is the most distant object in the sky that the human eye can seewithout optical instruments
a. The Horsehead Nebula 
b. The Andromeda Galaxy 
c. The Sagittarius Constellation 
d. The Aurora Borealis
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
147. Name the planet that has the greatest number of known moons:
a. Earth 
b. Saturn 
c. Jupiter 
d. Mars
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
148. The solitary moon of Pluto is named after the boatman of Greekmythology who ferries the dead across the River Styx. Its name is
a. Erebus 
b. Charon (pronounced kar-un) 
c. Nox 
d. Persephone (pronounced per-seph-o-nee)
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
149. Which civilization developed and implemented the first solarcalendar?
a. Babylonian 
b. Greek 
c. Egyptian 
d. Aztec
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
150. What is the HOTTEST region of the sun?
a. The core 
b. The photosphere 
c. The chromosphere 
d. The corona
ANS: D
TOP: ASTR
151. The same side of the moon always faces the Earth because:
a. the moon is not rotating about its axis. 
b. the moon's motion was fixed at its creation by the laws of inertia. 
c. tidal forces keep the moon's rotation and orbiting motion in sync with each other. 
d. the moon's magnetic poles keep aligned with the Earth's magnetic field. 
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
152. The resolving power of a telescope depends on the:
a. focal ratio 
b. diameter of the objective 
c. magnification 
d. focal length
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
153. The determination of stellar parallax is important because it allowsthe determination of
a. mass 
b. diameter 
c. distance 
d. velocity
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
154. The Giotto spacecraft set a new record last July for the closest visityet to
a. the core of a comet 
b. the red spot of Jupiter 
c. an active solar flare 
d. the rings of Saturn
ANS: A
TOP: ASTR
155. Data from Voyager II indicate that previous estimates of Triton'ssize were in error. It is now known that Neptune's largest moon is
a. nearly the size of Mars 
b. half the size of Mercury 
c. twice the size of the Earth's moon 
d. even larger than previously thought
ANS: B
TOP: ASTR
156. On a clear, dark, moonless night, approximately how many stars canbe seen with the naked eye?
a. 300 
b. 1,000 
c. 3,000 
d. 10,000
ANS: C
TOP: ASTR
