Science Bowl Biology

Multiple Choice

1. In studies of the human body, which of the following terms is used todescribe the first step in the production of urine? Is it:
a. tubular secretion 
b. tubular reabsorption 
c. glomerular filtration 
d. none of these 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
2. In studies of the human body, which of the following terms is used todescribe a severe depletion or deficiency in total body water? Is it:
a. hydrophobia 
b. hydropenia 
c. hydrolysis 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
3. Which of the following organs of the body produces insulin?
a. liver 
b. stomach 
c. pancreas 
d. small intestine 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
4. In studies of the human body, which of the following terms can alsobe used when referring to the pituitary gland? I it:
a. thymus 
b. hypophysis (pron: hypo-fi-sis) 
c. pancreas 
d. none of the above 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
5. Which of the following is commonly referred to as the "master gland"because it regulates so many body activities? Is it:
a. pituitary gland 
b. adrenal gland 
c. thyroid gland 
d. none of these 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
6. Which of the following antibacterial substances is known toprimarily affect gram-negative bacteria?
a. spermine (pron: SPER-meen) 
b. interferon (pron: in-ter-FEER-en) 
c. phagocytin (pron: fag-a-SITE-en) 
d. leukins (pron: LEW-kins) 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
7. Which of the following is the LEAST effective technique used tosterilize
a. heat 
b. cold 
c. ethylene oxide (pron: ETH-e-leen) 
d. filtration 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
8. Which term is used to describe organisms which live on or in thebottom of an ocean or lake. Such organisms can be found anywhere from the shoreline to thegreatest ocean depths?
a. biota 
b. benthos 
c. nekton 
d. plankton 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
9. Which of the following terms describes the study o animal behaviorbased on comparisons, the observation of patterns, and the consideration of environmentaladaptations? Is it:
a. ethology (pron: eh-thol-eh-gee) 
b. evisceration (pron: eh-vis-eh-ray-shun) 
c. promotorism 
d. sociology 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
10. Which of the following describes the belief that living things canappear from nonliving matter? Is it:
a. evolution 
b. spontaneous generation 
c. photosynthesis 
d. chemosynthesis 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
11. If we were to completely eliminate one group of marine organismsfrom the ocean, which would most likely be fatal to marin fish populations? Elimination of:
a. urchins 
b. diatoms (pron: DIE-a-toms) 
c. starfishes 
d. sea anemones (pron: a-NEM-a-nees) 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
12. From the following, name the type of mimicry by which anacceptable, palatable insect mimics an unfavorable, noxious insec for protection.
a. Batesian mimicry (pron: BATE-see-an MIM-i-cree) 
b. Mullerian mimicry (pron: myou-LER-ee-an MIM-i-cree) 
c. Femmes fatalles strategy (pron: fem fa-TAL) d) Monarchial mimicry 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
13. Which disease is NOT caused by a bacteria?
a. Tetanus 
b. Tuberculosis 
c. Leprosy 
d. AIDS 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
14. In plant studies, many species of angiosperms lack secondary growthand therefore do not become woody. They are generally called by which of the following?
a. trees 
b. bines 
c. herbs 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
15. The ovary of a flowering plant can develop into a:
a. spore 
b. fruit 
c. cone 
d. seed 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
16. The part of the flower that is adapted to catch pollen is the:
a. stigma 
b. style 
c. anther 
d. ovule 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
17. Fungi depend on other organisms for:
a. water 
b. food 
c. carbon dioxide 
d. hydrogen 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
18. Neuron is the name given to which special type of biological cell?
a. a nerve cell 
b. a brain cell 
c. a skin cell 
d. none of the above
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
19. In a cell, aerobic respiration occurs mainly in the:
a. ribosomes (pron: RIBE-a-somes) 
b. mitochondria (pron: mite-o-KON-dree-a) 
c. Golgi apparatus (pron: GALL-jee) 
d. chloroplasts (pron: KLOR-o-plasts) 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
20. As mitosis (pron: mie-TOE-sis) begins, the structure in the nucleusthat disappears is the:
a. spindle 
b. nucleolus (pron: new-klee-O-lus) 
c. chromatid (pron: KROME-a-tid) 
d. centromere (pron: SEN-tro-meer) 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
21. The process of osmosis is best illustrated by the movement of:
a. salts in blood stream. 
b. oxygen into red blood cells. 
c. carbon dioxide through stomata. 
d. water into root hair cells. 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
22. Cilia are distinguished from flagella (pronounced: fla-JEL-a) by their:
a. arrangement of microtubules. 
b. length and number. 
c. function. 
d. color. 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
23. Molecular oxygen formed during plant photosynthesis is derivedexclusively from:
a. CO2 
b. Water 
c. carbohydrates 
d. none of the above 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
24. In the digestive system, proteins are broken down into:
a. simple sugars. 
b. fatty acids. 
c. amino acids. 
d. glycerol. 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
25. Respiration that does NOT require oxygen is called:
a. photosynthesis 
b. oxidation 
c. anaerobic respiration 
d. aerobic respiration 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
26. The process by which glucose is broken down and carbon dioxideand alcohol are released is:
a. glycolysis 
b. photosynthesis 
c. respiration 
d. fermentation 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
27. What controls the steps in the respiration of glucose?
a. enzymes 
b. rate of photosynthesis 
c. absence of NAD 
d. amount of water present 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
28. What has the most energy in its chemical bonds?
a. AMP 
b. ADP 
c. ATP 
d. All are equal 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
29. During an early step of respiration, glucose is converted into twoidentical molecules of:
a. CO2 
b. ATP 
c. pyruvic acid(pron: pie-ROO-vik) 
d. chlorophyll 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
30. When you do strenuous exercise, oxygen is used up rapidly. Whatsubstance is formed.
a. pyruvic acid(pron: pie-ROO-vik) 
b. lactic acid 
c. glucose 
d. alcohol 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
31. Which of the following macromolecules is primarily responsible forthe insolubility of cell membranes in water?
a. starch 
b. cellulose 
c. protein 
d. phospholipid 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
32. In biological studies, which of the following terms could be used toreplace the word dehydration?
a. encystation 
b. desiccation 
c. hydrolysis 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
33. Which of the following terms refers to the study of tissues?
a. physiology 
b. pathology 
c. histology 
d. none of these 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
34. Which of the following refers to the development of viableindividuals from unfertilized eggs?
a. self-fertilization 
b. hermaphroditic reproduction (pronounced her - MAF - ro - dit - ik) 
c. parthenogenesis 
d. none of the above
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
35. The common energy-storage polysaccharide in animals is:
a. glycogen 
b. fructose 
c. starch 
d. collagen 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
36. Locomotion and heat production are functions of which system?
a. lymphatic (pron: lim-FAT-ik) 
b. respiratory 
c. skeletal 
d. muscular 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
37. The pituitary and thyroid glands are components of the:
a. endocrine system(pron: EN-do-kren) 
b. cardiovascular system 
c. lymphatic system(pron: lim-FAT-ik) 
d. respiratory system 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
38. The primary function of carbohydrates is to:
a. break down molecules. 
b. aid in digestion. 
c. supply the body with energy. 
d. regulate the flow of chyme. 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
39. In a comparison of the brain found in lower classes of vertebrates tothe brain in higher classes of vertebrates the area showing most increase in relative size is:
a. cerebellum 
b. optic lobe 
c. medulla 
d. cerebrum 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
40. The outer most layer of skin is called the:
a. endodermis 
b. mesoderm 
c. epidermis 
d. dermis 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
41. The major organ in mammals for detoxifying chemicals is:
a. kidney 
b. liver 
c. pancreas 
d. stomach 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
42. Which of the following is NOT a nitrogenous waste compoundexcreted by animals?
a. urea 
b. ammonia 
c. uric acid 
d. pyridine 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
43. The clavicles are the bones commonly referred to as:
a. the shoulder blades 
b. the shin bones 
c. the collar bones 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
44. Which of the following nourishes a developing seed?
a. pollen tube 
b. nectar 
c. endosperm 
d. zygote 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
45. Which of the following organs do the pulmonary arteries service?
a. heart 
b. lungs 
c. lower trunk and legs. 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
46. White blood cells are called:
a. lymphocytes 
b. leucocytes 
c. plasma 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
