Science Bowl Biology

Multiple Choice

1. Which of the following describes the major difference betweenbryophytes (pron: bry-oh-fites) and tracheophytes (pron: tray-key-o-fites)?
a. tracheophytes can survive on land 
b. tracheophytes have seeds inside fruits 
c. tracheophytes can make their own food 
d. tracheophytes have vessels to transport materials 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
2. The myofilaments of muscles consist primarily of two proteins.These two proteins are called:
a. actin and myosin 
b. progesterone and testosterone 
c. progesterone and estrogen 
d. none of the above
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
3. What French scientist is considered the father of paleontology? Wasit:
a. George Cuvier 
b. Marquis de Condorcet 
c. Jacque Tonnies 
d. Auguste Compte 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
4. What Roman physician's studies of human anatomy based on loweranimals served as the only text on the subject for nearly 1 centuries? Was it:
a. Cartrum 
b. Polonius 
c. Galen 
d. Monterius 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
5. What percentage of the atmosphere consists of carbon dioxide? Is itapproximately:
a. .03% (read: three-hundredths of a percent) 
b. 1% 
c. 5% 
d. 7% 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
6. The chromosomes responsible for characteristics other than sex areknown by which of the following terms?
a. ribosomes 
b. lysosomes 
c. autosomes 
d. spermatocytes 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
7. Each of the following is a cell organelle except one. Which one ofthese is NOT a cell organelle? Is it
a. mitochondrion 
b. lysosome 
c. cytoplasm 
d. endoplasmic reticulum 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
8. When a color blind man marries a woman pure for normal colorvision, it is probable that one of the following situations may result. Is it probable that
a. all the children will be color blind 
b. all the grandchildren will be color blind 
c. only the sons will be colorblind 
d. half the grandsons will be color blind 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
9. Which of the following are skin receptors in humans that are sensitiveto heat? Are they:
a. end organs of Krause 
b. Meissner's corpuscles 
c. end organs of Ruffini 
d. Pacinian corpuscles 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
10. Into which of the following acids is glucose broken down in the firststage of carbohydrate metabolism? Is it:
a. pyruvic acid (pie-rue-vick acid) 
b. lactic acid 
c. hydrochloric acid 
d. citric acid 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
11. Hormones are composed from many classes of molecules. As far asour present knowledge extends, hormones are NOT found in which of the following categories ofsubstances:
a. proteins 
b. peptides 
c. nucleic acids 
d. steroids 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
12. The process by which an amino acid loses its amino group is called:
a. hydration 
b. deamination 
c. oxidoamination 
d. dehydration 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
13. In a plasma membrane, which of the following provides a generalbarrier to the movement of molecules?
a. lipids 
b. proteins 
c. carbohydrates 
d. all of these 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
14. The name of the process by which oil glands in mammalian skinssecrete oils is:
a. active transport 
b. apocrine secretion 
c. holocrine secretion 
d. osmosis 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
15. An individual with three X chromosomes is likely t be:
a. a clinically normal female 
b. an abnormal female 
c. a Turner's individual 
d. a Kleinfelter's individual 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
16. In the first stage of photosynthesis, light energy is used to:
a. move water molecules 
b. denature chlorophyll 
c. split water 
d. produce carbohydrates 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
17. One-celled algae enclosed in minute two-part silic shells are called:
a. dinoflagellates (pron: die-no-flaj-el-ates) 
b. coelenterates (pron: sell-en-ter-ates) 
c. annelids 
d. diatoms 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
18. Osmoregulation is concerned with:
a. excretion 
b. ionic regulation 
c. control of the body's water content 
d. carbon dioxide regulation 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
19. Which of the following is not an arachnid?
a. lobster 
b. scorpion 
c. black widow spider 
d. tick 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
20. Which of the following is not found in blood?
a. fibrinogen 
b. glucose 
c. urea 
d. glycogen 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
21. Proof that plants can grow and reproduce using onl inorganicnutrients comes from the study of:
a. phototrophic nutrition 
b. mycorrhiza 
c. hydroponics 
d. humus 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
22. Water molecules enter plant epidermal cells by:
a. osmosis 
b. active transport 
c. translocation 
d. transpiration 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
23. Which of the following diseases has been eradicate from the world?
a. cholera 
b. smallpox 
c. diphtheria 
d. poliomyelitis 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
24. We believe the beginnings of life on earth took place in the:
a. air 
b. land masses 
c. shallow oceans 
d. glaciers 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
25. Each antibody molecule is made up of how many PAIR ofpolypeptide chains, joined together by disulfide bonds.
a. 1 
b. 2 
c. 3 
d. 4 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
26. The immune system normally discriminates between which types ofantigens.
a. B and T cells 
b. self and non-self 
c. humoral and cell-mediated 
d. primary and secondary 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
27. What percent of the total radiant energy received by a plant isconverted to chemical energy?
a. less than 2 
b. 10 
c. 50 
d. 75 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
28. Genes are able to control a cell's fate by determining the synthesis of:
a. other genes 
b. enzymes 
c. carbohydrates 
d. fat 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
29. Resolution by any microscope is ULTIMATELY limited by the:
a. curvature of the lenses 
b. wavelength of the light 
c. light intensity 
d. lens aberrations 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
30. Humans cannot digest cellulose because:
a. it does not contain sugars 
b. it is made up of disaccharides 
c. it is made up of monosaccharides 
d. humans lack the proper enzymes 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
31. Cholesterol, testosterone, and estrogen are all examples of:
a. proteins 
b. steroids 
c. nucleic acids 
d. alcohols 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
32. The muscle attachment to the bone of lesser movement is called themuscle's:
a. insertion 
b. head 
c. origin 
d. tail 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
33. The organic portion of bone consists of which one of the followingproteins.
a. fibrin 
b. collagen 
c. actin 
d. myosin 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
34. Octopus and squid belong to the class of molluscs known as:
a. cephalopoda (pron: sef-eh-lah-pod-ah) 
b. bivalvia 
c. gastropoda (pron: gas-tro-pod-ah) 
d. polyplacophora (pron: poly-pla-so-for-ah) 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
35. In mammals, the primary function of the loop of Henle is:
a. reabsorption of water 
b. water secretion 
c. ammonia secretion 
d. bicarbonate reabsorption 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
36. The name of the ductless glands which secrete thei product into thecirculatory system are:
a. exocrine (pron: ek-seh-kren) 
b. apocrine (pron: ap-eh-kren) 
c. holocrine (pron: hoe-leh-kren) 
d. endocrine (pron: en-deh-kren) 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
37. In the first stage of photosynthesis, light energy splits watermolecules leaving a by-product which is released. This byproduct is:
a. hydrogen 
b. carbon dioxide 
c. oxygen 
d. methane 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
38. The bacteria which cause dental cavities in humans break downsugars, releasing what chemical, that causes tooth destruction?
a. acids 
b. bases 
c. enzymes 
d. monosaccharides 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
39. Blood platelets are:
a. cytoplasmic fragments 
b. free nuclei 
c. a kind of red cell 
d. found only during clot formation 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
40. Oxidation of fats and carbohydrates within a cell would be anexample of:
a. anabolism 
b. catabolism 
c. biosynthesis 
d. none of the above 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
41. The muscle which is under involuntary control is:
a. striated 
b. smooth 
c. skeletal 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
42. The secondary pacemaker of the heart is known as the:
a. AV node 
b. SA node 
c. Purkinje Bundle 
d. None of the above 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
43. A pyrogen is a substance released during inflammation that aids incausing
a. swelling 
b. redness 
c. fever 
d. pain 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
44. : Which of the following living creatures is most likely to haveevolved from the trilobite?
a. millipede 
b. sea star 
c. sea anemone 
d. whelk 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
45. A lake which has high nutrient availability is:
a. oligotrophic (pron: all-i-go-tro-fik) 
b. eutrophic (pron: you-tro-fik) 
c. mesotrophic (pron: mez-eh-tro-fik) 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
46. The hormone causing growth of the endometrium (pron:en-doe-me-tree-um) is:
a. androgen (pron: ann-drah-jen) 
b. leutenizing hormone (pron: lew-ten-I-zing) 
c. estrogen 
d. prolactin 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
47. Nitrogen fixation is accomplished by:
a. plants 
b. bacteria 
c. animals 
d. viruses 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
48. The vesicles formed via the process known as phagocytosis (pron:fag-eh-seh-toe-sis) are called:
a. lysosomes (pron: lye-sah-somes: somes rhymes with homes) 
b. Golgi apparatus 
c. food vacuoles 
d. mitochondria (pron: my-toe-chon-dria) 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
49. Of the following three substances, which provides the LEAST sourceof energy for the body?
a. protein 
b. fats 
c. carbohydrates 
d. none of the above
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
50. Type A blood contains isohemaglutinins against which red cells?
a. type A 
b. type B 
c. type O 
d. type G 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
51. Which cell count tends to be elevated when an individual has anallergy or parasitic worms?
a. red blood cells 
b. erythrocyte 
c. eosinophil (pron: e-o-sin-o-fill) 
d. platelet 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
52. Veins tend to have the following except:
a. valves for unidirectional flow 
b. very elastic walls 
c. thin walls 
d. increasing size toward the heart 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
53. Gallstones are most often the result of:
a. gallbladder irritation 
b. eating cherries and swallowing the pits 
c. precipitation of cholesterol 
d. accumulated bile pigment 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
54. The loss of water by plants in the form of vapor i called:
a. evaporation 
b. transpiration 
c. evapotranspiration 
d. vaporization 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
55. Sponges are included in which of the following phyla?
a. Cnidaria (pron: nid-air-e-ah) 
b. Porifera 
c. Reptilia 
d. Foraminifera (pron: feh-ram-eh-nif-eh-rah) 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
56. All of the following are characteristic of amphibians EXCEPT:
a. moist skin 
b. the absence of scales 
c. metamorphosis 
d. live in salt water 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
57. Which of the following joints is formed by the articulation of thetibia, the malleolus of the fibula, and the convex surface of the talus. Is it the:
a. ankle 
b. knee 
c. elbow 
d. wrist 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
58. A plant which completes its life cycle, from seed to seed, in a singlegrowing season is known as:
a. perennial 
b. cyclic 
c. annual 
d. circadian 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
59. In flowers the terminal part of a stamen, containing the pollen sacs isknown as the:
a. anther 
b. style 
c. filament 
d. pistil 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
60. The process of nuclear reorganization in protozoa in which thenucleus divides, each half undergoes a maturation, and the tw persisting functional nuclei reuniteis known as:
a. autogamy 
b. autolysis 
c. autoregression 
d. autotomy 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
61. Of the following, which is NOT a bacterial disease Is it:
a. strep throat 
b. herpes 
c. Bubonic Plague 
d. Diphtheria 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
62. Of the following, which is NOT a viral disease? I it:
a. Hepatitis 
b. Chicken Pox 
c. Tuberculosis 
d. Rabies 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
63. Most of the fungi commonly observed are members of this group offungi, which includes toadstools, mushrooms and puffballs. This group of fungi is known as:
a. Phycomycetes (pron: fI-kO-my-seats) 
b. Ascomycetes (pron: as-kO-my-seats) 
c. Basidomycetes (pron: beh-sid-E-O-my-seats) 
d. Plyocetes (pron: ply-O-seats) 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
64. Truffles, morels and the many yeasts which are basic to fermentationprocesses belong to this group of fungi. These fung are known as:
a. Phycomycetes 
b. Ascomycetes 
c. Basidomycetes 
d. Plyocetes 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
65. The muscle which RAISES a bird's wing is known as the
a. Pectoralis major
b. pectoralis minor
c. soleus
d. gluteus maximus
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
66. The adult human of average age and size has approximately homany quarts of blood? Is it
a. 4
b. 6
c. 8
d. 10
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
67. Once the erythrocytes enter the blood in humans, i is estimated thathey have an average lifetime of how many days. Is it
a. 10 days
b. 120 days
c. 200 days
d. 360 days
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
68. Of the following, which mechanisms are important i the death oerythrocytes (pron: eh-rith-reh-sites) in human blood? Is i
a. phagocytosis (pron: fag-eh-seh-toe-sis)
b. hemolysis
c. mechanical damage
d. all of the above
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
69. Surplus red blood cells, needed to meet an emergency, are MAINLstored in what organ of the human body? Is it the
a. pancreas
b. spleen
c. liver
d. kidneys
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
70. When a human donor gives a pint of blood, it usually requires homany weeks for the body RESERVE of red corpuscles to be replaced? Is it
a. 1 week
b. 3 weeks
c. 7 weeks
d. 21 weeks
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
71. he several types of white blood cells are sometime collectivelreferred to as
a. erythrocytes (pron: eh-rith-row-cites)
b. leukocytes (pron: lew-kah-cites)
c. erythroblasts (pron: eh-rith-rah-blast)
d. thrombocytes (pron: throm-bow-cites)
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
72. The condition in which there is a DECREASE in the number of whitblood cells in humans is known as
a. leukocytosis (pron: lew-kO-sigh-toe-sis)
b. leukopenia (pron: lew-kO-pea-nee-ah)
c. leukemia (pron: lew-kee-me-ah)
d. leukohyperia (pron: lew-kO-high-per-e-ah)
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
73. The smallest of the FORMED elements of the blood are the
a. white cells
b. red cells
c. platelets
d. erythrocytes
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
74. Which of the following statements concerning platelets iINCORRECT. Platelets
a. contain DNA
b. are roughly disk-shaped
c. have little ability to synthesize proteins
d. are between 1/2 and 1/3 the diameter of the red cell
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
75. When a wound occurs in humans, the platelets in th blood activate substance which starts the clotting process. The substance which starts the clotting is
a. adenosine (pron: ah-den-ah-seen)
b. histamine
c. lecithin (pron: less-ah-thin)
d. thrombin
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
76. When looking at the cross section of the human tibia, one finds thRED marrow in the
a. medullary cavity
b. cancellous bone
c. periosteum
d. epiphysis
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
77. Lengthening of long bones in humans occurs in a particular area othe bone. This area is called the
a. medullary canal
b. cancellous bone
c. periosteum (pron: per-E-ahs-tee-em)
d. epiphysis (pron: eh-pif-eh-sis)
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
78. The part of the human brain which is an important relay station fothe sensory impulses and also is the origin of many of the involuntary acts of the eye such as thnarrowing of the pupil in bright light is the
a. hypothalamus
b. midbrain
c. corpus callosum
d. cerebellum
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
79. In the human brain, body temperature, metabolism, heart rate, sexuadevelopment, sleep and the body's use of fat and water are influenced by this region of the brainThis region of the brain is the
a. hypothalamus
b. midbrain
c. corpus callosum
d. cerebellum
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
80. In which cerebral lobes is the speech center located? Is it the
a. frontal
b. parietal
c. temporal
d. occipital
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
81. In most axons, the myelin sheath is interrupted at intervals of about millimeter or more. These interruptions are called the
a. glial
b. nodes of Ranvier (pron: ron-vee-ay)
c. collaterals
d. nodes of Babinet
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
82. Cariology is the study of the
a. human heart
b. tooth decay
c. kidneys
d. liver
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
83. During the final stage of cell division, the mitotic apparatusdisappears, the chromosomes become attenuated, the centrioles duplicate and split, the nuclearmembrane becomes reconstituted and the nucleolus reappears. This phase of cell division isknown as:
a. prophase (pron: prO-phase) 
b. metaphase 
c. anaphase 
d. telophase 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
84. In cell division, the phase following the metaphas is known as:
a. prophase 
b. anaphase 
c. telophase 
d. extophase 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
85. The order of insects which includes beetles is known as:
a. Coleoptera (pron: kO-lee-op-teh-rah) 
b. Orthoptera (pron: or-tho-op-teh-rah) 
c. Hymenoptera (pron: high-meh-nop-teh-rah) 
d. Diptera (pron: dip-teh-rah) 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
86. This major protein component of connective tissue in mammalscomprises most of the organic matter of skin, tendons, bones, and teeth, and occurs as fibrousinclusions in most other body structures. Is this material:
a. elastin 
b. collagen 
c. fatty acids 
d. keratin 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
87. Sickle cell anemia and Huntington's chorea are both:
a. virus-related diseases 
b. bacteria-related diseases 
c. congenital disorders 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
88. In most species of Paramecium there are how many contractilevacuoles? Is it:
a. one 
b. two 
c. three 
d. four 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
89. The major fibrous proteins are:
a. peptone and edestin 
b. glutelin and leucine 
c. valine and lysine 
d. myosin and actin 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
90. Costal cartilage:
a. attach the ribs to the sternum 
b. cover the ends of the femur 
c. is found in the pinna of the ear 
d. forms the intervertebral disks of the backbone 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
91. From which grandparent or grandparents did you inherit yourmitochondria (pron: my-toe-chon-dria)? Is it your:
a. mother's parents 
b. paternal grandfather 
c. grand mothers 
d. maternal grandmother 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
92. Which of the following are NOT part of a neuron?
a. synapse 
b. axon 
c. Nissl bodies 
d. dendrite 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
93. The resting potential of a neuron is dependent on what two ions?
a. lead and calcium ions 
b. calcium and phosphate ions 
c. sodium and potassium ions 
d. potassium and phosphate ions 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
94. Which of the following is NOT a type of neuron?
a. sensory 
b. motor 
c. association 
d. stimulatory 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
95. Melatonin (pron: mel-eh-toe-nin) is produced by the:
a. skin 
b. pineal gland 
c. liver 
d. pituitary gland 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
96. Which of the following statements is TRUE of insulin? Is it:
a. secreted by the pancreas 
b. a protein 
c. involved in the metabolism of glucose 
d. all of the above 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
97. Select the hormone INCORRECTLY paired with its target.
a. TSH - thyroid gland 
b. ACTH - anterior pituitary 
c. LH - ovary or testis 
d. MSH - melanocytes (pron: meh-lan-o-cite) 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
98. Which of the following tissues secrete hormones?
a. pancreas 
b. ovaries 
c. gastro-intestinal tract 
d. all of the above 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
99. Which of the following structures is directly attached to the ovary?
a. oviduct 
b. uterus 
c. suspensory ligaments 
d. vagina 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
100. Fertilization of the ovum by the sperm usually occurs in the:
a. oviduct 
b. vagina 
c. uterus 
d. ovary 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
101. The corpeus luteum secretes:
a. HCG 
b. LH 
c. FSH 
d. progesterone 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
102. Which of the following does sperm NOT travel through?
a. ureter 
b. urethra 
c. vas deferens 
d. epididymus 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
103. The placenta in humans is derived from the:
a. embryo only 
b. uterus only 
c. endometrium and embryo 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
104. The number of mature gametes resulting from meiosi in the female is:
a. 1 
b. 2 
c. 3 
d. 4 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
105. Synapsis and crossing over of chromosomes occurs i which phases ofmeiosis
a. Interphase 
b. Prophase 
c. Meterphase 
d. Teleophase 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
106. A layer of dead skin cells is found in the:
a. subcutaneous tissue 
b. dermis 
c. epidermis 
d. no dead cells are in the skin 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
107. Glial (pron: glee-el) cells are found in the:
a. muscular system 
b. digestive system 
c. endocrine system (pron: en-de-kren) 
d. nervous system 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
108. Myelin sheaths are found:
a. surrounding tendons 
b. covering the brain 
c. covering muscles 
d. around axons of neurons 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
109. Which of the following is an INCORRECT statement about theparasympathetic system?
a. It increases digestive action. 
b. It is the fight or flight system. 
c. slows breathing rate 
d. establishes resting state 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
110. Which of the following is NOT a component of the human axialskeleton?
a. sternum 
b. vertebral column 
c. tarsals 
d. skull 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
111. Phalanges are found in the:
a. feet 
b. skull 
c. hip 
d. chest 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
112. The phase of contraction of a muscle occurs when:
a. tropomyosin binds and releases actin 
b. myosin binds and releases actin 
c. actin binds and releases myosin 
d. none of the above 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
113. Select the INCORRECT statement concerning the muscular system.
a. Bones contact other bones at joints. 
b. Flexors decrease the angle of a joint. 
c. Adductors move a limb away from the midline. 
d. Tendons attach muscle to bone. 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
114. Which type of muscle is a syncytium (pron: sin-sish-E-um)?
a. skeletal 
b. cardiac 
c. smooth 
d. all of the above 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
115. When the potential difference across a membrane of a neuron equalsthe threshold, what results?
a. movement of the membrane 
b. action potential 
c. relaxation 
d. contraction 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
116. What ions determine the resting potential of a nerve?
a. sodium and calcium 
b. calcium and copper 
c. potassium and calcium 
d. sodium and potassium 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
117. Which structure does NOT play a part in the motion of cells?
a. microvilli 
b. cilia 
c. flagella 
d. pseudopodia 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
118. Bacteriophage (pron: back-teer-e-o-faj) are:
a. bacteria 
b. bacteria precursors 
c. viruses 
d. agents which cause the production of bacteria 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
119. Which of the following is NOT a mode of genetic exchange within abacterial population?
a. conjugation 
b. transduction 
c. transformation 
d. translation 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
120. The blastula develops into the:
a. gastrula 
b. morula 
c. endoderm 
d. zygote 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
121. Tissue differentiation begins at which stage?
a. zygote 
b. morula 
c. blastula 
d. gastrula 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
122. The nervous system develops from which germ layer?
a. ectoderm 
b. mesoderm 
c. endoderm 
d. none of the above 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
123. During inspiration, the diaphragm moves:
a. down by contraction 
b. down by relaxation 
c. up by contraction 
d. up by relaxation 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
124. The valve between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery is the:
a. mitral valve 
b. semilunar valve 
c. bicuspid valve 
d. tricuspid valve 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
125. Which of the following is NOT a function of the kidney?
a. excretion of urea 
b. regulation of fluids and electrolytes 
c. elimination of toxic substances 
d. defecation 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
126. When CO2 (carbon dioxide) is dissolved in water, i yields a solutionthat:
a. has acidic properties 
b. has basic properties 
c. is neutral 
d. none of the above
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
127. Digestion of carbohydrates begins where?Science Bowl BIOLOGYBiology - 35
a. small intestines 
b. colon 
c. mouth 
d. stomach 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
128. Digestion of PROTEINS begins in which of the following humanorgans
a. small intestines 
b. colon 
c. mouth 
d. stomach 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
129. Bile has what function in digestion?
a. emulsify lipids 
b. digest proteins 
c. gluconeogenesis (pron: glue-ko-nee-o-gen-e-sis) 
d. digest carbohydrates 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
130. Of the following, which is a basic need of all living things?
a. oxygen gas 
b. light 
c. hydrogen gas 
d. water 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
131. A botanist is most likely to study:
a. Monerans 
b. Protistans (pron: pro-tis-tans) 
c. Fungi 
d. Virions 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
132. A virus must do what to reproduce?Science Bowl BIOLOGYBiology - 36
a. form a latent virus 
b. undergo transformation 
c. infect a cell 
d. conjugate 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
133. The chromosomes of a eukaryotic cell are located i the:
a. mitochondria (pron: my-toe-kon-dria) 
b. nucleus 
c. ribosome 
d. endoplasma 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
134. Which of the following is an example of symbiosis?
a. lichen 
b. slime mold 
c. amoeba 
d. moss 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
135. Oxygen enters the body of a grasshopper through:
a. gills 
b. spinnerets 
c. spiracles 
d. book lungs 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
136. A heart with a single atrium and single ventricle is a characteristic ofadult:
a. amphibians 
b. arthropods 
c. birds 
d. fish 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
137. The physical appearance and properties of an organism which is theexpression of the genetic makeup is called the:
a. phenotype 
b. pangenesis 
c. parental trait 
d. genotype 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
138. The complex of sugar polymers and proteins which are patchilydistributed on the plasma membranes of animal cells is called
a. cellulose 
b. chitin 
c. glyocalyx 
d. cytoskeleton 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
139. Organisms with cells containing two sets of parental chromosomesare called:
a. diploid 
b. bisomal 
c. haploid 
d. autosomal 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
140. The type of gene interaction in which the effects of one gene overrideor mask the effects of other entirely different genes is called:
a. linkage 
b. mutation 
c. pleitropy (pron: ply-ah-tropy) 
d. epistasis (pron: eh-pis-te-sis) 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
141. For which of the following creatures is fat the greatest percentage ofbody weight?
a. termite 
b. blue whale 
c. zebra 
d. female lion 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
142. Which is false regarding freshwater fish?
a. their blood is hypertonic to their environment 
b. they often actively take up salt 
c. they excrete urine hypotonic to the blood 
d. their gills actively excrete salts 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
143. Neutral fats, oils and waxes may be classified as:
a. lipids 
b. carbohydrates 
c. proteins 
d. none of the above 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
144. During which phase of the cell cycle are normal components of thecell synthesized and assembled?
a. the M phase 
b. the G1 phase 
c. the S phase 
d. the G2 phase 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
145. Which of the following is NOT a characteristic shared by most of themembers of the kingdom plantae?
a. they are multicellular 
b. they are nonmotile 
c. they possess bilateral symmetry 
d. there is an alternation of haploid and diploid generations 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
146. The major divisions of behavior are:
a. reflex and conditioning 
b. innate and learned 
c. habituation and trial and error 
d. taxis and biorhythm 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
147. Motivation:
a. is not dependent upon the internal physiological state. 
b. is not required for innate behavior. 
c. is required for learned behavior. 
d. all of these 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
148. Innate behavior differs from learned behavior by the former being:
a. highly modifiable by external factors. 
b. slightly modifiable by external factors. 
c. totally modifiable by external factors. 
d. completely immodifiable 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
149. Which of the following is NOT a type of learned behavior?
a. habituation 
b. fixed action patterns 
c. conditioning 
d. imprinting 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
150. Which of the following is NOT a type of intraspecific competition?
a. territoriality 
b. mutualism 
c. hierarchies 
d. pecking orders 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
151. "Two different species cannot occupy the same nich for long" is astatement of the:
a. Hardy-Weinberg Law 
b. Darwin's Theory of Natural Selection 
c. Competitive Exclusion Principle 
d. Einstein's Theory of Relativity 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
152. Parasitism at its extremes is similar to:
a. commensalism and mutualism 
b. predation and mutualism 
c. mutualism and habituation 
d. commensalism and predation 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
153. Functions of territoriality are:
a. spacing members of a species. 
b. decreasing competition among members of a species. 
c. increasing social stability of a species. 
d. all of the above 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
154. Homozygous refers to:
a. similar types of chromosomes 
b. having similar functions on an evolutionary basis 
c. particles in solution that are inseparable 
d. having identical alleles for a given gene 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
155. Which of the following is NOT a component of chromosomes?
a. histones 
b. non-histone proteins 
c. DNA 
d. RNA 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
156. Cell membranes are composed of:
a. proteins 
b. plasmids 
c. nucleopores 
d. lysosomes 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
157. Between the layers of phospholipids in a cell membrane, there is anarea that is:
a. hydrophobic (pron: high-dro-fo-bick) 
b. hydrophillic (pron: high-dro-fill-ick) 
c. hygroscopic (pron: high-grow-scop-ick) 
d. hygrolipic (pron: high-grow-lip-ick) 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
158. The random movement of particles in solution towar a uniformdistribution is termed:
a. osmosis 
b. repulsion 
c. diffusion 
d. facilitated diffusion 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
159. In osmosis the flow of SOLVENT moves in what direction oftonicity
a. isotonic to hypotonic 
b. hypotonic to hypertonic 
c. hypertonic to isotonic 
d. hypertonic to hypotonic 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
160. If a red blood cell is placed in a hypotonic solution, it:
a. swells 
b. shrinks 
c. crenates 
d. remains the same 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
161. Substances insoluble in a membrane are carried across the membranewith the concentration gradient by means of a carrier molecule in a process known as:
a. osmosis. 
b. diffusion. 
c. active transport. 
d. facilitated diffusion. 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
162. Invagination by a cell membrane forming a vesicle around a solidparticle is a:
a. lysosome 
b. phagocytosis (pron: fag-o-sigh-toe-sis) 
c. pinocytosis (pron: pin-o-sigh-toe-sis) 
d. peroxisomes (pron: pay-rak-se-som) 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
163. The difference between smooth and rough endoplasmi reticulum isthe lack of:
a. ATP 
b. proteins 
c. ribosomes 
d. peroxisomes 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
164. Which organelle has been shown to contain DNA?
a. Ribosome 
b. Mitochondria 
c. Golgi Apparatus 
d. none of the above 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
165. The chloroplast carries out:
a. photosynthesis 
b. reproduction 
c. secretion 
d. packaging 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
166. Which of the following blood types is referred to as the universalRECIPIENT?
a. A 
b. AB 
c. O 
d. B 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
167. Exchange of oxygen, carbon dioxide, nutrients and waste productsfrom mother to fetus occurs through diffusion across the:
a. chorionic villi (pron: core-e-on-ick villi) 
b. endometrium 
c. corpus luteum 
d. colostrum 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
168. Which of the following is NOT hormone associated with malereproductive physiology:
a. testosterone 
b. prolactin 
c. interstitial hormone 
d. follicle-stimulating hormone 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
169. Genetic elements that can replicate independently of the cell'schromosomes are called:
a. clones 
b. episomes 
c. repressors 
d. promotors 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
170. Humans can produce energy by:
a. anaerobic respiration 
b. aerobic respiration 
c. neither anaerobic nor aerobic respiration 
d. both anaerobic and aerobic respiration 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
171. Approximately how many different types of cells make up the humanbody?
a. 200 
b. 100 
c. 80 
d. 50 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
172. An aggregate fruit is best represented by:
a. tomatoes 
b. raspberries 
c. plums 
d. pears 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
173. Spiders are members of what class?
a. Diplopoda (pron: dip-low-poe-da) 
b. Insecta 
c. Chilopoda (pron: Ki-low-poe-da) 
d. Arachnida (pron: a-rak-ne-da) 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
174. What vascular tissue brings water and minerals to the leaves?
a. phloem (pron: flow-em) 
b. xylem 
c. cambium 
d. rhizomes (pron: rye-zom) 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
175. An animal which consumes plant and animal matter i called:
a. a carnivore 
b. a saprophytic (pron: sap-roe-fit-ick) 
c. an omnivore 
d. an herbivore 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
176. The name of the plane that bisects the anatomical figure from top tobottom and front to back:
a. sagittal 
b. medial 
c. coronal 
d. pariental 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
177. Sharks are:
a. amphibians 
b. bony fish 
c. cartilaginous fish (pron: kart-el-aj-eh-nes) 
d. reptiles 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
178. Eggs leave the female bird's body through the:
a. oviduct 
b. cloaca 
c. syrinx (pron: sir-inks) 
d. urinary tract 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
179. Competition for resources between two different species is called:
a. predation 
b. interspecific competition 
c. intraspecific competition 
d. competitive exclusion 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
180. What kind of acid is found in ants?
a. acetic 
b. formic 
c. nitric 
d. glutamic 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
181. Which of the following is an example of striated tissue?
a. muscle 
b. nervous 
c. epithelial (pron: ep-a-THEE-lee-al) 
d. connective 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
182. Squamous cell tissue is an example of which type of tissue?
a. muscle 
b. nervous 
c. epithelial (pron: ep-a-THEE-lee-al) 
d. connective 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
183. What type of tissue is bone tissue?
a. muscle 
b. nervous 
c. epithelial (pron: ep-a-THEE-lee-al) 
d. connective 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
184. Chemical regulation of the body involves which system:
a. lymphatic 
b. respiratory 
c. circulatory 
d. endocrine
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
185. Which of the following human digestive enzymes is incorrectlymatched to its substrate?
a. pepsin - protein 
b. trypsin - starch (pron: TRIP-sin) 
c. pancreatic amylase - starch (pron: AM-i-lase) 
d. lipase - fat 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
186. Which of the following statements does NOT apply to arteries whencomparing them to veins:
a. have thick walls 
b. carry blood away from heart 
c. highly elastic walls 
d. have valves. 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
187. In general, valves in the circulatory system:
a. permit blood to circulate rapidly 
b. prevent blood from moving too rapidly 
c. prevent blood from flowing in the wrong direction 
d. stop the circulation whenever necessary 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
188. At the end of the ventricular contraction, the maximum arterialpressure is attained, and blood flow is most rapid. This is correctly termed the:
a. arterial maximum 
b. gluteus maximum 
c. diastolic pressure 
d. systolic pressure 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
189. What is the name of the blood vessels to the legs?
a. mesenteric (pron: mez-en-TARE-ik) 
b. coronary 
c. renal 
d. iliac (pron: IL-ee-ak) 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
190. A chronic disease of the liver in which fat deposits and scar tissuereplace normal cells is:
a. cirrhosis 
b. hepatitis 
c. constipation 
d. vitamin deficiency 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
191. Which of these is specifically responsible for antibody-mediatedimmunity?
a. T cells 
b. B cells 
c. platelets 
d. All of the above 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
192. The AIDS viruses specifically attack which kind of cell?
a. B cells 
b. helper T cells 
c. killer T cells 
d. macrophages 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
193. Most of the carbon dioxide picked up by the blood in the tissues:
a. dissolves in the plasma 
b. unites with hemoglobin 
c. forms microscopic bubbles 
d. diffuses into the alveoli 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
194. The sodium/potassium pump is primarily responsible for the:
a. resting potential 
b. action potential 
c. excretion of salts 
d. contraction of muscle fibers 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
195. Excess secretion from this gland can cause a person to be thin,hyperactive, always hungry, & irritable.
a. adrenal cortex 
b. thyroid 
c. anterior pituitary 
d. adrenal medulla 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
196. Hormones which function in sending chemical signal between two ormore individuals are known as:
a. leucomones 
b. pheromones (pron: fair-oh-moans) 
c. comones 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
197. Which term would be used to describe an animal which has adaptedto a tree-dwelling mode of life?
a. deciduous (pron: de-SID-you-us) 
b. dendritic 
c. arboreal (pron: ar-BOR-e-al) 
d. sessile (pron: SESS-ile) 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
198. Which term is used to describe an animal which limits it's activity toperiods of dim light at dawn and dusk?
a. diurnal (pron: die-ER-nal) 
b. crepuscular (pron: kri-PUSS-kyule-ar) 
c. vesperal (pron: VESS-per-al) 
d. none of the above 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
199. Exoskeletons DO NOT provide:
a. sites for muscle attachment 
b. support for the organism 
c. unlimited growth potential 
d. protection of the organism 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
200. Which of the following describes the type of fruit characterized as asimple, dry, one-seeded indehiscent (pron: in-deh-HISS-ent) fruit with seed attached to one ovarywall at only one point. Is it:
a. drupe 
b. achene (pron: AY-keen) 
c. glume (pron: gloom) 
d. none of the above 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
201. In a plant, the layer of persistently meristematic tissue, giving rise tosecondary tissues, resulting in growth in diameter is which of the following?
a. bark 
b. cambium 
c. capsule 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
202. In studies of trees, one finds just one leaf bud and one leaf at eachnode on a walnut twig. This arrangement of leaf bud and leaf is known as:
a. alternate 
b. opposite 
c. whorled 
d. none of the above 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
203. In studies of trees, when three or more leaves and buds occur at eachnode, leaf arrangement and bud arrangement are said to be:
a. whorled 
b. opposite 
c. alternate 
d. varying 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
204. Liverworts and mosses are characterized by their lack of vascularconducting tissue. These two groups of plants, liverwort and mosses, are known by which of thefollowing terms:
a. thallophytes (pron: THAL-o-fights) 
b. gymnosperms (pron: JIM-na-sperms) 
c. bryophytes (pron: BRIE-o-fights) 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
205. In studies of plants, which of the following are thallophytes?
a. bacteria 
b. fungi 
c. algae 
d. all of the above 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
206. The group containing the most primitive living vascular plants hasonly two living genera. This group is named:
a. arthropoda 
b. psilophyta 
c. bryophyta 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
207. Thickness and toughness of plant walls are increased by depositionwithin the original cellulose wall, of a substance known as lignin. The process of deposition iscalled:
a. Sclerenchymacia 
b. Lignification 
c. Scleridia 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
208. Which of the following are stems of plants which are leaf like inform, are green, and perform the functions of leaves. In addition, they may bear fruit, flowers,and temporary leaves?
a. Tubers 
b. rhizomes 
c. cladophylls 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
209. Which of the following scientific terms is used to describe the loss ofwater vapor by plants. Is it:
a. digestion 
b. respiration 
c. adsorption 
d. transpiration 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
210. Because they are resistant to desiccation (pron: des-ih-KA-shun),desert plants are known as what?
a. dehydrates 
b. hydrophobocytes 
c. xerophytes 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
211. A plant bending toward sunlight is an example of which of thefollowing?
a. release of energy 
b. metabolism 
c. phototaxis 
d. reproduction 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
212. Which of the following are the most common bryophytes?
a. ferns 
b. cone-bearing plants 
c. mosses and liverworts 
d. flowering plants 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
213. The tendency of a plant to grow toward light is called:
a. photosynthesis 
b. photoinduction 
c. phototropism (pron: fo-tot-row-piz-em) 
d. photolysis (pron: fo-tol-eh-sis) 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
214. Which of the following laws best describes the statement:The members of an homologous (pron: ho-MOL-eh-gus) pair of genes are separated duringmeiosis (pron: my-O-sis) of reproductive cells so that each gamete (pron: GAM-eet) contains oneof the alleles (pron: a-leels). Is it:
a. law of segregation 
b. law of independent assortment 
c. law of filial (pron: FILL-ee-al) generation 
d. law of sorting 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
215. Which of the following refers to a cross in which traits are consideredsimultaneously? Is it:
a. dihybrid cross 
b. filial cross 
c. punnett cross 
d. none of the above 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
216. Which of the following terms refers to the frequency with which agene is expressed in a detectable way? Is it:
a. polygenetics 
b. codominance 
c. allelism 
d. penetrance 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
217. Which of the following terms refers to the collection of all alleles ofevery gene present in the members of a population? Is it:
a. population expression 
b. gene pool 
c. genetic dictionary 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
218. Which of the following are capable of causing chromosomalmutations?
a. hydrogen peroxide 
b. high body temperature 
c. X-rays 
d. all of the above 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
219. In a cell, the membrane bounding the outer surface of the cytoplasmis known as:
a. tonoplast 
b. cytoplast 
c. plasmalemma 
d. none of the above
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
220. The use and transfer of energy in all cells involves the samecompound, ATP. The letters ATP stand for the chemical:
a. atrophine trichloride 
b. aluminum trioxide 
c. adenosine triphosphate 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
221. Which two of the following four bases in DNA are pyrimidine (pron:pie-rim-eh-den) bases?
a. cytosine 
b. thymine 
c. adenine 
d. guanine (pron: gwa - neen) 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
222. Which two of the following four bases in DNA are purine bases?
a. adenine 
b. thymine 
c. cytosine 
d. guanine 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
223. Peptide bonds are found in:
a. carbohydrates 
b. lipids 
c. nucleic acids 
d. proteins 
ANS: D
TOP: BIOL
224. What is the end product of glycolysis (fermentation) in chordates(pron: KOR-dates) when there is INSUFFICIENT oxygen?
a. lactic acid 
b. hydrogen 
c. sugar 
d. alcohol 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
225. What is the main purpose of fermentation in cells?
a. production of ATP 
b. hydrolysis of starch 
c. production of alcohol 
d. burning of hydrogen with oxygen 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
226. Schwann's cell theory basically states that:
a. cells are the building blocks of living things. 
b. cells require oxygen. 
c. cells are made of atoms and molecules. 
d. cells require nutrients. 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
227. Muscle is surrounded by a tough sheet of whitish connective tissuecalled:
a. apodeme 
b. annelida 
c. fascia 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
228. Which of the following is not a function performed by musclethrough contraction?
a. motion 
b. maintenance of posture 
c. hemopoiesis 
d. heat production 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
229. The most important chemical process in digestion is:
a. diffusion 
b. active transport 
c. hydrolysis 
d. none of the above
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
230. Which of the following terms is used to describe animals thatmaintain a constant body temperature by producing heat by metabolic oxidations (musclecontractions) and losing excess heat by evaporative cooling?
a. poikilotherms 
b. heterotherms 
c. homeotherms 
d. none of these 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
231. A normal female human cell will have how many Barr bodies percell? Is it:
a. 1 
b. 2 
c. 3 
d. 4 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
232. Which of the following refers to the science concerned with theapplication of genetic principles to the improvement of the human species?
a. assortive mating 
b. eugenics 
c. holandricism 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
233. Which of the following terms relates to the mating ofgenetically-related individuals ("blood relatives")?
a. familialism (pron: feh-mil-yel-ism) 
b. kinship genetics 
c. consanguinity (pron: kon-sang-gwin-eh-tee) d) none of these 
d. none of the above
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
234. In biological studies which of the following terms is used to refer tomuscles with less than normal tone? Is it:
a. atonic 
b. latent 
c. flaccid 
d. none of these 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
235. In biological studies which of the following is used to refer to theoxygen-binding, iron-containing, conjugated protein complex present in the sarcoplasm of musclecells?
a. myelin 
b. myosin 
c. myoglobin 
d. none of these 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
236. Which of the following terms is used to describe the formation offibrous tissue where it normally does not exist? Is it:
a. fibrositis 
b. fibrogenesis 
c. fibrosis 
d. none of these 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
237. Which of the following refers to the term -- tracheotomy (pron:tray-key-ot-eh-me)?
a. an electrical determination of the flow rate of air through the trachea 
b. an incision of the trachea 
c. the removal of the trachea due to gross cancerous tumor formation 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
238. Which of the following terms refers to the ease with which a tissuestretches? Is it:
a. stretch factor 
b. surface tension 
c. compliance 
d. ductility 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
239. Which of the following terms is used to describe the study of thefactors that influence the flow characteristics of blood as it moves through the body? Is it:
a. hemodynamics 
b. anginology 
c. capillary physiology 
d. none of these 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
240. Which of the following terms refers to a deficienc of blood flow intoa part of the body? Is it:
a. intrafusal 
b. ischemia 
c. infarct 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
241. Which of the following terms describes the process by which redblood cells are formed? Is it:
a. erythroblastosis 
b. erythropoiesis 
c. erythromyacinosis 
d. cardiosis 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
242. Which of the following is a term for mononuclear, granulocytic whiteblood cells that produce immunoglobulins?
a. lymphocytes 
b. platelets 
c. erythrocytes (pron: eh-rith-reh-sites) 
d. none of these 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
243. Which of the following is also called "cancer of the blood" -- anuncontrolled, greatly accelerated production of white cells. Is it:
a. polycythemia 
b. leukemia 
c. sickle-cell anemia 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
244. In studies of the human body, which of the following terms is used todescribe a very rapid heart rate or pulse rate? Is it:
a. bradycardia 
b. tachycardia 
c. cardiosis 
d. myocardia 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
245. In studies of the human body, which of the following terms is used todescribe heart muscle? Is it:
a. myocardium 
b. epicardium 
c. pericardium 
d. tachycardium 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
246. In studies of humans, the term used to describe th act of swallowingis:
a. mastication 
b. deglutition 
c. peristalsis 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
247. Complete the sentence by choosing one of the given biological terms.If an ulcer continues and eventually erodes all the way through the wall of the stomach orduodenum, the condition is called what?
a. periodontitis 
b. perforation 
c. periotonitis 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: BIOL
248. In studying the human body, the instrument which i used to indirectlymeasure the metabolic rate is a:
a. respirometer 
b. hydrometer 
c. calorimeter 
d. none of these 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
249. In studies of the human body, which of the following terms would beused to describe the lack of voluntary control of urination or voiding of the bladder? Is it
a. anuria 
b. suppression 
c. incontinence 
d. none of these 
ANS: C
TOP: BIOL
250. In studies of the human body, which of the following terms is used todescribe the hereditary condition associated with an excessively high level of uric acid in theblood?
a. gout 
b. cystitis 
c. uric ptosis 
d. none of these 
ANS: A
TOP: BIOL
