Science Bowl Chemistry

Multiple Choice

1. Thermite is a mixture of aluminum and:
a. hematite 
b. sodium oxide 
c. iron 
d. magnesium 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
2. Nitric acid is made from air and water by the:
a. Haber process 
b. Contact process 
c. Castner process 
d. Arc process 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
3. Impurities in metal ores are called:
a. flux 
b. gangue (pron: gang) 
c. slag 
d. sediments 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
4. The existence of an element in two or more forms i the samephysical phase is known as:
a. allotropy 
b. diphasisty 
c. polyformation 
d. diatomic existence 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
5. The complete combustion of one mole of hydrogen produces:
a. 1/2 mole H2O 
b. 1/2 mole H2O + 1/2 mole O3 
c. 1 mole water 
d. 1 mole hydroxide ions 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
6. Moles of solute divided by kilograms of solvent is expression for:
a. molarity 
b. solute-to-solution ratio 
c. mole percentage 
d. molality 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
7. 0.51!C/molal is the molal:
a. freezing-point constant for water 
b. boiling-point constant for water 
c. vapor-temperature constant for water 
d. heat of solution for water 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
8. The bond most likely to be formed when two atoms differSOMEWHAT in their tendency to attract electrons is:
a. nonpolar ionic 
b. polar ionic 
c. polar covalent 
d. nonpolar covalent 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
9. What is the expected bond angle in H2S when the bonding isdescribed using hydrogen-like atomic orbitals?
a. 180o 
b. 120o 
c. 109.5o 
d. 90o 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
10. Zinc is most soluble in which of the following liquids?
a. Water 
b. Alchohol 
c. Mercury 
d. Oil 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
11. What is the primary CONSTITUENT of human bones?
a. Calcium sulfate 
b. Calcium carbonate 
c. Hydroxyapatite (pron: high-drox-ee-ap-eh-tite) 
d. Chloroapatite (pron: klor-o-ap-eh-tite) 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
12. One property a colloidal dispersion has that a solution does not is:
a. homogeneity 
b. filterability 
c. the Tyndall effect 
d. osmotic pressure 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
13. A family of organic compounds containing only carb and hydrogenand having only single bonds are the:
a. alkenes and alkanes 
b. alkanes and cycloalkanes 
c. alkynes (pron: AL-kines) and alkenes 
d. cycloalkanes and alkenes 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
14. In quantum chemistry, a nodal surface:
a. gives 99 percent contour surface for an orbital 
b. exists for a 1s orbital 
c. has quantum number l = 1 
d. is an orbital surface on which the probability density is zero 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
15. Which of the following elements has the largest crystallographicradius?
a. Mg 
b. N 
c. K 
d. F 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
16. Which of the following substances would be expecte to have thehighest melting point?
a. Potassium Bromide 
b. Iodine 
c. Methane 
d. Hydrogen Chloride 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
17. Which of the following aqueous solutions would hav the lowestboiling point? Would it be a 1.0 molal solution of:
a. Hydrochloric acid 
b. Sodium Hydroxide 
c. Acetic Acid, 
d. Magnesium Chloride 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
18. The three isotopes of hydrogen are protium, tritiu and:
a. heprin 
b. helium 
c. duodenum 
d. deuterium 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
19. Which of these molecules is bound by ionic bonds?
a. H2O 
b. CH4 
c. NaCl 
d. C6H12O6 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
20. The equilibrium constant for the gas phase reactio A + B = C + D is10-3. The rate of the forward reaction is 10-11 cubic centimeters per molecule per second. Whatis the rate constant of the reverse reaction?
a. 10 cubic centimeters per molecule per second 
b. 10-8 cubic centimeters per molecule per second 
c. 10-10 cubic centimeters per molecule per second 
d. 10-14 cubic centimeters per molecule per second 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
21. The chemical symbol for Plutonium is:
a. Pl (read: P - L) 
b. Pu 
c. Pt 
d. Pm 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
22. A nonpolar molecule is usually:
a. hydrophilic 
b. soluble in water 
c. hydrophytic 
d. soluble in organic solvents 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
23. Which compound is a monosaccharide?
a. maltose 
b. sucrose 
c. glucose 
d. glycogen 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
24. What acid is prevalent in the human stomach?
a. sulfuric acid 
b. nitric acid 
c. muriatic acid 
d. amino acids 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
25. Another name for milk sugar is:
a. glucose 
b. maltose 
c. lactose 
d. fructose 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
26. Molecular oxygen is said to be paramagnetic. This indicates thatmolecular oxygen:
a. is a gas at room temperature 
b. forms molecules containing two oxygen atoms 
c. has an approximate molecular weight of 32 
d. has unpaired electrons 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
27. What is the molecular geometry of XeO2 (Xenon Dioxide)?
a. linear 
b. angular 
c. tetrahedral 
d. trigonal planar 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
28. What is the molecular geometry of the Bromine Tetraflouride ion(B-F-4-minus 1)
a. linear 
b. angular 
c. tetrahedral 
d. pyramidal 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
29. What is the molecular geometry of thiocyanate (pron:thie-owe-SIE-a-nate) ion (SCN minus 1)?
a. linear 
b. angular 
c. tetrahedral 
d. pyramidal 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
30. Which one of the following molecules exhibits resonance?
a. Carbon Tetrachloride 
b. Carbonate ion 
c. Sulfur Dichloride 
d. Phosphorus Tribromide 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
31. Which of the following has a multiple covalent bond?
a. Bromine 
b. Hydrogen 
c. Oxygen 
d. Chlorine Monofluoride 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
32. Which of the following molecules is polar?
a. Iodine 
b. Carbon Dioxide 
c. Carbon Monoxide 
d. Chlorine 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
33. Which of the following elements would form a covalent bond withBromine?
a. Calcium 
b. Aluminum 
c. Oxygen 
d. Tin 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
34. In which form is Silicon most frequently found in nature?
a. The free element Silicon 
b. Silicon-Oxygen compounds 
c. Silicon-Carbon compounds 
d. Silicon-Metal compounds 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
35. Compared to Chlorine, Bromine has:
a. smaller atomic size 
b. higher density 
c. lower boiling point 
d. greater number of outer electrons 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
36. Which of the following best describes Chlorine?
a. colorless liquid 
b. reddish-brown liquid 
c. colorless gas 
d. greenish-yellow gas 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
37. Which of the following elements has the highest first ionizationenergy
a. Helium 
b. Neon 
c. Fluorine 
d. Argon 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
38. Which of the following elements would most likely be a silvery solidat room temperature?
a. Sodium 
b. Silicon 
c. Selenium 
d. Astatine 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
39. Which of the following groups of elements have an OUTERELECTRONIC configuration of S-2-P-2?
a. halogens 
b. Nitrogen-Phosphorus Group 
c. Carbon-Silicon Group 
d. Boron-Aluminum Group 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
40. AS A GROUP, the halogens have the largest:
a. atomic radii 
b. Boiling points 
c. electronegativities 
d. ionization energies 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
41. Relative to a solution with a pH of 4, a solution of pH = 6 is:
a. higher in H+ concentration 
b. lower in OH
c. less basic
d. less acidic 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
42. A cobalt chloride solution soaked into a piece of cotton can be usedas an indicator for changes in humidity levels. Pink indicates a high-humidity environment andblue a low-humidity environment. What are these color changes caused by:
a. The ionization and reduction of the cobalt plus two slash cobalt plus three couple. 
b. The vaporization and redeposition of cobalt chloride. 
c. The loss and readsorption of the cobalt's waters of hydration. 
d. This is an illustration of the Schrodinger principle. 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
43. pH is defined as the negative logarithm of the hydrogen ionconcentration. Comparing a pH 5 and a pH 8 solution, which of the following is true?
a. There are 1,000 times more hydrogen ions in the pH 8 solution. 
b. There are 1,000 times more hydrogen ions in the pH 5 solution. 
c. There are 3 times more hydrogen ions in the pH 8 solution. 
d. Cannot tell the difference between these two solutions by pH, since the numbers are so 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
44. Ethylene diamine tetraacetoacetate (pron:te-tra-a-see-tow-AS-e-tate) (EDTW) is often used for which of the following:
a. Determine hardness of water 
b. Measure the amount of zinc in a solution. 
c. A preservative in foods 
d. All of the above 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
45. The common alloy, babbit metal, which is composed of tin,antimony, and copper, is best known for its use in:
a. magnets 
b. bearings 
c. dental fillings 
d. drinking vessels 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
46. The boiling points of the halogens increase going from F2 to I2.What type of intermolecular forces are responsible for this trend?
a. permanent dipole 
b. hydrogen bonding 
c. ion-ion attraction 
d. London dispersion forces 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
47. A sample of grapefruit juice at 25 degrees Celsius has a hydroniumconcentration of 1.78 X 10-3 molar. What is the pH of the solution?
a. 2.22 
b. 2.75 
c. 3.25 
d. 6.33 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
48. Which of the following has the smallest atomic radius?
a. iodine 
b. chlorine 
c. fluorine 
d. bromine 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
49. Which of the following is an example of a "cation":
a. ammonium 
b. chloride 
c. sulfate 
d. oxalate 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
50. Which of the following is NOT an organic acid?
a. butyric (pron: byu-TEER-ik) 
b. sulfuric 
c. acetic 
d. citric 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
51. In Celsius, the freezing point of a one-molal water solution ofsodium phosphate, chemical formula Na3PO4, is expected to be:
a. - 0.93 degrees Celsius 
b. - 1.86 degrees Celsius 
c. - 7.44 degrees Celsius 
d. - 3.72 degrees Celsius 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
52. Which of the following metals is obtained from its most commonore using an electrolytic process?
a. nickel 
b. tin 
c. aluminum 
d. manganese 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
53. When a radioisotope undergoes beta minus decay, does its atomicnumber
a. increase 
b. decrease 
c. remain the same 
d. vary depending on the element involved 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
54. Which of the following forms the weakest acid in aqueous solution?
a. hydrogen fluoride 
b. hydrogen chloride 
c. hydrogen bromide 
d. hydrogen iodide 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
55. Oxygen has a valence number of -1 in:
a. Sodium Peroxide 
b. Potassium Chlorate 
c. Water 
d. Sodium Hydroxide 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
56. The oxidation number of chlorine in KClO4 is:
a. -1 
b. +3 
c. +7 
d. +1 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
57. What is a typical spacing between atoms in a crystal, e.g., copper orrock salt?
a. 0.1 Angstroms 
b. 2 Angstroms 
c. 20 Angstroms 
d. 100 Angstroms 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
58. Mendeleev proposed the existence of an unknown element that hecalled eka-aluminum. The element is now called:
a. magnesium 
b. silicon 
c. gallium 
d. germanium 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
59. Which one of the following is classified as a covalent network solidcrystal
a. CaO 
b. SiO2 
c. CO2 
d. Pb 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
60. Foods cooked in salt water compared to unsalted water will:
a. cook faster 
b. boil at a lower temperature 
c. not be affected in any way 
d. will cook slower because of the action of the salt 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
61. Crystals of ice are:
a. isometric 
b. tetragonal 
c. hexagonal 
d. orthorombic 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
62. What device is used to remove sulfur dioxide from power plantstack gases?
a. scrubber 
b. precipitator 
c. digester 
d. clarifier 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
63. The lunar soil consists primarily of:
a. FeTiO2 
b. A12O3 
c. SiO2 
d. H2O 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
64. The metallic element with the highest melting point is:
a. Ta 
b. W 
c. Rh 
d. Mo 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
65. The greatest reservoir of carbon dioxide is:
a. the atmosphere 
b. plants 
c. the soil 
d. the oceans 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
66. What are the major constituents of typical fly ash particlesgenerated from the combustion of coal?
a. acidic and basic oxides 
b. trace elements 
c. unburned carbon 
d. sulfates and phosphates 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
67. Which of the following molecules has a permanent electric dipolemoment?
a. H2O 
b. Cl2 
c. CH4 
d. N2 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
68. Within a given period of the periodic table, the element with thelowest ionization energy is:
a. transition metal 
b. alkali metal 
c. halogen 
d. noble gas 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
69. A substance that accepts an electron pair is classified as a:
a. bronsted-lowry acid 
b. bronsted-lowry base 
c. lewis acid 
d. lewis base 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
70. In general, as you move down a family the ionization energy:
a. increases 
b. decreases 
c. remains the same 
d. increases or decreases 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
71. In general, as you move across a period (left to right)electronegativity:
a. increases 
b. decreases 
c. remains the same 
d. increases or decreases 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
72. Absorption into the nucleus of an electron from the K shell is called,"electron capture". When this happens to 18Ar37 (read: A - R, 37, atomic number 18), theproduct is:
a. 17Cl37 (read: C - L, 37, atomic number 17) 
b. 17Cl38 (read: C - L, 38, atomic number 17) 
c. 19K37 (read: K, 37, atomic number 19) 
d. 19K38 (read: K, 38, atomic number 19) 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
73. An aldehyde can be oxidized to form:
a. a ketone 
b. an acid 
c. an alcohol 
d. an ester 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
74. Elements that exist in two or more distinctly different solid formsare known as:
a. azeotropes 
b. allotropes 
c. isotopes 
d. isochores 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
75. Which of the following statements is not one of the three basicassumptions of the kinetic theory?
a. Matter is composed of very tiny particles. 
b. The particles of matter are in constant motion. 
c. The particles of matter lose energy in collisions. 
d. none of the above
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
76. Which of the 3rd period elements loses electrons most readily?
a. Sodium 
b. Magnesium 
c. Aluminum 
d. Silicon 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
77. Of the nonmetallic elements the one least likely to be found inorganic compounds is:
a. nitrogen 
b. phosphorus 
c. chlorine 
d. selenium 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
78. A waste product in the metabolism of glucose in cells is:
a. oxygen 
b. methane 
c. carbon dioxide 
d. urea 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
79. Diamond has each of the following properties except:
a. extreme hardness 
b. ability to conduct electricity 
c. high melting point 
d. tendency to burn in air 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
80. Which of the following is not a polymer?
a. rayon 
b. Teflon 
c. rubber 
d. penicillin 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
81. What is the process by which an atom gains electrons?
a. Reduction 
b. Neutralization 
c. Electrolysis 
d. Oxidation 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
82. Which of the following is TRUE of a sample of gas at a constanttemperature when the pressure is doubled?
a. the volume doubles 
b. the volume halves 
c. the volume remains the same 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
83. Immiscible liquids:
a. are not mutually soluble 
b. dissolve in each other 
c. dissolve in more than one liquid 
d. are unstable and chemically react 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
84. Which of the following would be least soluble in water?
a. Carbon Tetrachloride 
b. Sodium Oxide 
c. Magnesium Bromide 
d. Potassium Phosphate 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
85. Which of the following is the term used for the resistance of a liquidsystem to flow?
a. surface tension 
b. diffusion 
c. viscosity 
d. none of the above
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
86. The critical temperature is the temperature:
a. above which a substance cannot be vaporized 
b. at which the density is a minimum 
c. at which solid, liquid, and vapor are in equilibrium 
d. above which the substance cannot be liquified. 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
87. Which of the following substances would be the best choice toneutralize sulfuric acid?
a. sodium hydroxide 
b. silicon dioxide 
c. copper metal 
d. phosphorus pentoxide 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
88. A compound which is an electron pair donor is generally classifiedas a:
a. Lewis acid 
b. Bronsted base 
c. Bronsted acid 
d. Lewis base 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
89. Buffer solutions show which one of the following traits:
a. absorb acid and base with only small changes in pH
b. indefinite stability
c. high elasticity 
d. abnormal density 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
90. Relative to the pure solvent, the boiling point of a solution is:
a. higher 
b. lower 
c. at the same temperature 
d. none of the above
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
91. Which of the following is the element which makes up about 8percent of the earth's crust and occurs in all rocks except limestone and sandstone?
a. sulfur 
b. aluminum 
c. sodium 
d. magnesium 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
92. Which one of the following metals is immune to corrosion by air,water, hydrochloric acid and nitric acid; but is soluble in aqua regia?
a. gold 
b. silver 
c. magnesium 
d. nickel 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
93. Which one of the following metals is essential to the structure andfunctioning of hemoglobin?
a. copper 
b. magnesium 
c. tin 
d. iron 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
94. Which of the following would you measure using a calorimeter?
a. specific heat 
b. weight 
c. specific gravity 
d. density 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
95. The energy required to melt one mole of a solid at its melting pointis called one of the following.
a. the molar heat of fusion 
b. the molar hear of vaporization 
c. the molar heat of capacity 
d. the melting point 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
96. Gamma rays are similar to X rays in which of the following ways?
a. they have neither rest mass nor charge 
b. they can be bent in an electric field 
c. they originate within the nucleus 
d. they are of low energy 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
97. Which element is associated with the term "galvanized"?
a. gallium 
b. zinc 
c. mercury 
d. nickel 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
98. Which of the properties listed below would you expect a solution tohave if it is an acid?
a. It feels slippery to the touch. 
b. It tastes bitter. 
c. It turns red litmus blue. 
d. It is a conductor of electricity. 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
99. Which of the following compounds has the highest energy content?
a. protein 
b. fats 
c. carbohydrate 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
100. The orbital angular momemtum quantum number indicates whichone of the following?
a. the average distance of the electrons from the nucleus 
b. the direction of spin of the electron 
c. the shape of the orbital 
d. the position about the three axes in space of the orbital 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
101. The characteristic bonds in nonmetal oxides are which of thefollowing types?
a. network 
b. covalent 
c. ionic 
d. coordinate covalent 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
102. Lead-206 is the final product of the radioactive decay series namedthe:
a. thorium series 
b. actinium series 
c. uranium series 
d. neptunium series 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
103. As water solidifies it does one of the following:
a. gives off heat and contracts 
b. gives off heat and expands 
c. takes in heat and contracts 
d. takes in heat and expands 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
104. Carbon atoms link together with other carbon atoms in all of thefollowing ways EXCEPT
a. networks 
b. chains 
c. ionic bonds 
d. rings 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
105. Carbon monoxide is a poisonous gas for one of the followingreasons.
a. it is a powerful acid anhydride 
b. it combines with the hemoglobin of the blood 
c. it depletes the dissolved oxygen in the blood by forming carbon dioxide 
d. it is a strong oxidizing agent 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
106. To increase the solubility of a gas in a liquid as much as possible,we would use:
a. low temperature and high pressure. 
b. high temperature and high pressure. 
c. high temperature and low pressure. 
d. low temperature and low pressure. 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
107. The silver luster of the metals can be attributed to one of thefollowing. It is attributed to their free
a. protons 
b. ions 
c. neutrons 
d. electrons 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
108. Radon differs from other naturally radioactive elements in whichone of the following ways. Is it because radon
a. is extremely radioactive 
b. decays into the element radium 
c. is a noble gas 
d. is as chemically active as fluorine 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
109. If the volume of a gas changes by a factor of 3, with pressureremaining constant, the temperature in Kelvin will change by a factor of:
a. 1/9 
b. 1/3 
c. 3 
d. 9 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
110. Which of the following substances is classified as amorphous?
a. glass 
b. Zinc 
c. diamond 
d. sodium chloride 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
111. Nature tends to move toward states of:
a. high energy and disorder 
b. high energy and order 
c. low energy and disorder 
d. low energy and order 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
112. The bubbling off of carbon dioxide when a bottle of carbonatedbeverage is opened is a good example of:
a. deliquescence 
b. effervescence 
c. condensation 
d. sublimation 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
113. The process of a solid converting directly into a gas is called:
a. fusion 
b. sublimation 
c. condensation 
d. distillation 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
114. Which is the HEAVIEST of the following molecules:
a. butane 
b. ethane 
c. methane 
d. propane 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
115. Which oxide of the following metals is often used as a pigment inwhite paint?
a. titanium 
b. cobalt 
c. nickel 
d. vanadium 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
116. Which of the following terms means that a crystal has the ability tocapture and hold water molecules?
a. hydroponic 
b. hygroscopic 
c. hydrophobic 
d. hydropholectic 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
117. Which of the following terms has as its definition: a mixture havingcontinuous and dispersed phases?
a. colloid 
b. solute 
c. suspension 
d. solvent 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
118. Which of the following properties is greater for a solution than forthe pure solvent?
a. freezing point 
b. vapor pressure 
c. temperature 
d. boiling point 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
119. Which of the following terms denotes the polar molecules ornegative ions clustered about a central positive ion?
a. ligands 
b. isomers 
c. complex ions 
d. dipoles 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
120. If the pressure of a gas is increased by a factor of 4, and thetemperature is kept constant, the volume of the gas will change by which of the following factors?
a. 4 
b. 2 
c. 1/2 
d. 1/4 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
121. The atomic number of a nucleus will increase by 1 if which of thefollowing is emitted by the nucleus?
a. an alpha particle 
b. a positron 
c. a beta particle 
d. a gamma ray 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
122. As one moves down a group of the periodic table, the tendency tolose electrons does which of the following?
a. increase 
b. decrease 
c. stay the same 
d. none of the above
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
123. An organic liquid will generally have a specific gravity?
a. equal to that of water 
b. less than that of water 
c. greater than that of water 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
124. Peroxides such as hydrogen peroxide and benzoyl peroxide arecommonly used in small quantities in over-the-counter preparations such as antiseptics and acnecreams. What hazard do peroxides present in higher concentrations?
a. explosive 
b. strongly acidic 
c. strongly basic 
d. there is no hazard 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
125. Sodium chloride is an example of what kind of compound?
a. ionic 
b. covalent 
c. polyatomic 
d. monatomic 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
126. A COPPER strip is placed in one compartment of a voltaic cell anda wire connects this strip to a piece of metal in the other compartment through a voltmeter. If thevoltmeter reads zero, the other piece of metal is:
a. zinc 
b. mercury 
c. silver 
d. copper 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
127. Isobaric processes take place at constant:
a. temperature 
b. volume 
c. pressure 
d. energy 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
128. Which of the following nitrogen-containing compounds is mostreadily used by plants?
a. nitrogen dioxide 
b. ammonia 
c. nitrous oxide 
d. nitrate 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
129. Which of the following organic compounds is known as a saturatedchain hydrocarbon ?
a. an aromatic compound 
b. an alkene 
c. an alkyne 
d. an alkane 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
130. In terms of quality, what is the highest ranked coal?
a. peat 
b. bituminous 
c. anthracite 
d. lignite 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
131. The force responsible for drops of liquid assuming a spherical shapeis known as:
a. strong nuclear force 
b. Van der Waals attraction 
c. surface tension 
d. osmotic pressure 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
132. If a piece of metal at -20 degrees Celsius is added to an ice andwater mixture in equilibrium at 0 degrees Celsius, the amount of ice will:
a. Increase 
b. Remain the same 
c. Decrease 
d. none of the above
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
133. Which of the following materials is the chief source of naturalorganic compounds?
a. petroleum 
b. coal 
c. natural gas 
d. carbon dioxide 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
134. Which of the following elements does not normally occur as adiatomic molecule?
a. hydrogen 
b. chlorine 
c. argon 
d. oxygen 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
135. Which of the following metals can be obtained from its ore only byelectrolysis of a molten salt ?
a. cobalt 
b. chromium 
c. copper 
d. sodium 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
136. Which of the following elements does not occur in nature as a nativeore?
a. silver 
b. gold 
c. platinum 
d. aluminum 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
137. Which of the following gases cannot be collected by waterdisplacement?
a. Nitrogen 
b. Oxygen 
c. Hydrogen 
d. Hydrogen Chloride 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
138. Which of the following metals is least subject to oxidation?
a. silver 
b. gold 
c. magnesium 
d. nickel 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
139. Endothermic refers to a process that
a. does work 
b. gives off heat 
c. loses mass 
d. absorbs heat 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
140. Which of the following is an aromatic hydrocarbon?
a. methane 
b. ethanol 
c. benzene 
d. glycine 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
141. In the United States, Grain alcohol is made:
a. from coal 
b. by fermenting starches 
c. from methanol 
d. from vinegar 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
142. When a solute is dissolved in a pure solvent, the resulting freezingpoint is:
a. higher than pure solvent 
b. lower than pure solvent 
c. does not change 
d. cannot tell from this information 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
143. High grade coal is mainly which of the following?
a. methane 
b. propane 
c. a mixture of hydrocarbons 
d. anthracene 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
144. Which of the following properties is lower for a solution than forthe pure solvent?
a. osmotic pressure 
b. vapor pressure 
c. temperature 
d. boiling point 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
145. Which of the following is the same for both radioactive iodine andstable iodine?
a. number of neutrons 
b. mass number 
c. half-life 
d. chemical properties 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
146. Which of the following is a strong electrolyte in aqueous solution.
a. ammonia 
b. coffee 
c. Gatorade 
d. corn syrup 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
147. Nutrasweet, the artificial sweetener, contains molecules in which ofthe following groups?
a. carbohydrates 
b. lipids 
c. amino acids 
d. nucleic acids 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
148. Most of the transuranic elements were first created:
a. in Germany 
b. at Argonne National Laboratory 
c. in California 
d. in Russia 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
149. The nuclei of heavy atoms generally contain:
a. more electrons than neutrons 
b. more protons than electrons 
c. more neutrons than electrons 
d. more orbitals than electrons 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
150. Which one of the following is largest?
a. the number of molecules in 2 grams of hydrogen gas 
b. the number of molecules in 60 grams of lead sulfate 
c. the number of molecules in 20 liters of oxygen gas at standard temperature and pressure 
d. the population of the United States 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
151. One mole of electrons is known as:
a. a Faraday 
b. a Henry 
c. a Coulomb 
d. an Ampere 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
152. A standardized base solution should be protected from which of thefollowing gases?
a. hydrogen 
b. carbon dioxide 
c. nitrogen 
d. argon 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
153. For a substance, density, solubility and melting point are examplesof:
a. physical properties 
b. amorphous properties 
c. chemical properties 
d. potential properties 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
154. Which of the following acids is in vinegar?
a. benzoic 
b. formic 
c. malanoic 
d. acetic 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
155. Which of the following would you expect to have the highestboiling point?
a. methane 
b. carbon tetrachloride 
c. chloroform 
d. chloromethane 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
156. An aqueous solution is always a solution in which the:
a. solute is water 
b. solute is a salt 
c. solvent is a salt 
d. solvent is water 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
157. The rate of a chemical reaction can be affected by:
a. temperature 
b. concentration of products 
c. concentration of reactants 
d. all of the above 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
158. When you push down on the piston of a bicycle pump, the air iscompressed into a smaller volume, which causes its temperature to:
a. decrease 
b. increase 
c. stay the same 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
159. The word atom is from a Greek word meaning:
a. small 
b. indivisible 
c. unseen 
d. visible 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
160. Standard temperature is defined to be:
a. O DEGREES C 
b. O DEGREES K 
c. 25 DEGREES C 
d. 32 DEGREES C 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
161. The man credited with the law relating the temperature and volumeof a gas is:
a. Thomson 
b. Boyle 
c. Charles 
d. Dalton 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
162. Ionic substances dissolve in water to form:
a. highly acid solutions 
b. electrolytic solutions 
c. colloids 
d. emulsions 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
163. Mineral acids are also classified as:
a. carboxyl acids 
b. inorganic acids 
c. non-electrolytic acids 
d. oxidation acids 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
164. How many calories are required to raise the temperature of 20grams of water from 40 degrees to 60 degrees?
a. 40 cal 
b. 400 cal 
c. 20 cal 
d. 200 cal 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
165. Which of the following energy technologies is not utilized forpower generation today?
a. Nuclear Fission 
b. Solar Ponds 
c. Geothermal Power 
d. Nuclear Fusion 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
166. If your room has a natural tendency to become messy anddisordered, it is an excellent example of:
a. enthalpy 
b. entropy 
c. the Bernoulli effect 
d. the Haase effect 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
167. Which compound is responsible for the rotten egg smell?
a. sulfuric acid 
b. putrescine 
c. hydrogen sulfide 
d. sulfur dioxide 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
168. If a material has the capacity to behave either as an acid or a base itis said to be:
a. amorphous 
b. amphoteric 
c. anhydrous 
d. aklaline 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
169. All gases form what type of mixture?
a. dispersion 
b. colloidal 
c. homogeneous 
d. heterogeneous 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
170. Which of the following elements is not an alkaline earth metal?
a. beryllium 
b. barium 
c. calcium 
d. rubidium 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
171. Carbon dioxide has each of the following uses except:
a. refrigerant 
b. manufacture of baking soda 
c. fire extinguisher 
d. valuable reducing agent 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
172. In 1953, Sir Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay were the firstpeople to reach the summit of Mount Everest from their last previously established camp at analtitude of 27,900 feet (barometric pressure about 220 mm). At that camp, water would have:
a. boiled at 100 degrees Celsius 
b. boiled at 68 degrees Celsius 
c. not boiled at any temperature 
d. sublimed 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
173. Consider the following gaseous equilibrium: PCl3 + Cl2 = PCl5 +heat. Which of the following changes will shift it to the right:
a. lower the temperature 
b. remove some Cl2 
c. increase the volume 
d. add a catalyst 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
174. Whose name is given to alkylmagnesium halides:
a. Victor Grignard 
b. Daniel Rutherford 
c. Dmitri Mendeleev 
d. none of the above
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
175. During osmosis
a. Pure solvent diffuses through a membrane but solutes do not. 
b. Pure solutes diffuse through a membrane but solvent does not. 
c. Pure solvent and a solution both diffuse at the same time through a membrane. 
d. Gases diffuse through a membrane into a solution and build up pressure. 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
176. What is the purpose of the salt bridge in an electrochemical cell?
a. It allows ion migration. 
b. It allows electron flow. 
c. It prevents ion migration. 
d. It prevents electron flow. 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
177. Calcium carbonate is most soluble in:
a. 0.2 Molar Sodium carbonate 
b. 0.1 Molar Calcium chloride 
c. 0.1 Molar Sodium hydroxide 
d. 0.1 Molar Hydrochloric acid 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
178. Based on the intermolecular forces involved, which of the followingmolecules will have the lowest boiling point?
a. ethane 
b. methyl alcohol 
c. methyl amine 
d. methyl fluoride 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
179. Which of the following gases is more soluble in water as the watertemperature increases?
a. Helium 
b. Air 
c. Carbon dioxide 
d. Hydrogen 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
180. How many carbon atoms are there in one naphthalene molecule?
a. 6 
b. 8 
c. 10 
d. 15 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
181. Mayonnaise is:
a. an emulsion 
b. a hydrogenated oil 
c. a covalent solution 
d. a coalescent solution 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
182. The difference in the osmotic pressures of one molar solutions ofdifferent compounds in a given solvent at a given temperature results from?
a. Different values for R 
b. Different values for Avogadro's number 
c. Ionization or dissociation 
d. None of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
183. Which of the following substances is a molecular solid?
a. Glass 
b. Ice 
c. Silver 
d. Table Salt 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
