Science Bowl Chemistry

Multiple Choice

1. Which of the following scientists was awarded the Nobel Prize in1911 for the discovery of the radioactive elements, radium and polonium?
a. John Dalton 
b. Dmitri Mendeleev 
c. Emil Fischer 
d. Marie Curie 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
2. Which of the following pairs of German scientists discovered theatomic fission of uranium and set the stage for the nuclear age?
a. Hahn and Strassman 
b. Nernst and Planck 
c. Ostwald and Heisenberg 
d. Bohr and Rutherford 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
3. Name the person who developed a table of elements which revealedregularities in elemental properties in 1869?
a. Theodore Richards 
b. Antoine Lavoisier 
c. Dmitri Mendeleev 
d. Svante Arrhenius 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
4. Who was the first American chemist to receive a Nobel Prize? Hewas selected in 1914 for his precise determination of atomic weights.
a. Edward Frankland 
b. Theodore Richards 
c. John Bardeen 
d. Paul Dirac 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
5. How many electrons can occupy an s orbital?
a. one 
b. two 
c. three 
d. four 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
6. Which of the following is a necessary characteristic for electrons thatshare an s orbital?
a. coplanar spins 
b. parallel spins 
c. opposite spins 
d. none of these 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
7. Which of the following terms refers to the number of molecules orions attached to a central metallic atom?
a. coordination number 
b. connection number 
c. bonding number 
d. none of these 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
8. Which of the following pairs do NOT show similar chemicalproperties?
a. fluorine-argon 
b. beryllium-aluminum 
c. boron-silicon 
d. lithium-magnesium 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
9. Which of the following terms refers to a material which slowsneutrons?
a. retarder 
b. moderator 
c. buffer 
d. bottleneck 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
10. Which of the following refers to the scattering of light by colloidalparticles?
a. Rutherford effect 
b. Tyndall effect (pron: tin-dahl) 
c. Thompson effect 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
11. Which of the following refers to an easily melted product of thereaction between the flux and the impurities of an ore?
a. slag 
b. slurry 
c. slug 
d. none of the above 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
12. Which of the following is NOT a physical property of crystallineboron?
a. brown color 
b. diamond hardness 
c. brittleness 
d. high electrical resistance 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
13. Which noble gas has the highest melting point ?
a. argon 
b. krypton 
c. xenon 
d. radon 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
14. The noble gases have low boiling points because:
a. their ionization potentials are very low 
b. only weak Van der Waals forces hold the atoms together 
c. they are produced by the fractional distillation of liquid air 
d. they have eight electrons in the outer shell 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
15. For which of the following classes of salts are all of its compoundssoluble in water?
a. sulfates 
b. nitrates 
c. hydroxides 
d. chlorides 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
16. Which of the following is NOT a general property of hydroxidebases in aqueous solution?
a. High solubility 
b. Bitter taste 
c. Ability to neutralize aqueous acid solutions 
d. Ability to change phenolphthalein from colorless to red 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
17. Aqua regia is:
a. concentrated nitric acid 
b. a mixture of three parts of concentrated hydrochloric acid and one part concentrated 
c. concentrated hydrochloric acid 
d. a mixture of sulfuric acid and hydrochloric acid 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
18. A solution with a pH of 12 is:
a. weakly acidic 
b. strongly acidic 
c. weakly basic 
d. strongly basic 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
19. The halogen with the largest atomic radius is:
a. Cl 
b. I 
c. Br 
d. At 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
20. Compounds of iodine are NOT used for which of the following?
a. as a refrigerant 
b. in photographic film 
c. as an essential part of diet 
d. as an antiseptic 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
21. Allotropic modifications of phosphorus include each of thefollowing EXCEPT:
a. red phosphorus 
b. black phosphorus 
c. white phosphorus 
d. green phosphorus 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
22. Which of the following contain sp2 hybridized carbon atoms?
a. alkanes 
b. alkenes 
c. alkynes 
d. cycloalkanes 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
23. Which of the following phrases is NOT appropriate for adescription of benzene?
a. characteristic reactivity of an alkene 
b. volatile liquid 
c. aromatic hydrocarbon 
d. resonance hybridization 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
24. Which of the following is NOT an aromatic hydrocarbon?
a. naphthalene 
b. hexane 
c. styrene 
d. xylene 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
25. Which of the following is NOT an aliphatic hydrocarbon?
a. n-octane 
b. propylene 
c. n-tridecane 
d. benzene 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
26. Which of the following is NOT a means of preparing carbondioxide
a. burning coke in the absence of air 
b. combustion of methane 
c. heating certain normal carbonates 
d. action of acids on carbonates 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
27. One of the following is NOT a lipid. Is it:
a. fats and oils 
b. starches 
c. steroids 
d. waxes 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
28. Which one of the following is NOT a vitamin?
a. ascorbic acid 
b. niacin (pron: nI-eh-sen) 
c. trypsin (pron: trip-sen) 
d. riboflavin (pron: rye-bow-fla-vin) 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
29. Of the following, which has units of "Pascal".
a. force 
b. volume 
c. pressure 
d. viscosity 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
30. A Poise is the unit of measure of which of the following?
a. pressure 
b. viscosity 
c. force 
d. mass 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
31. Which of the following is the element represented by the symbol B?
a. Barium 
b. Bismuth 
c. Boron 
d. Beryllium 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
32. In the periodic table, which of the following identifies a horizontalrow?
a. period 
b. group 
c. family 
d. series 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
33. Which of the following describes the orientation of bonds in an sp3hybridized atom?
a. triagonal 
b. linear 
c. tetrahedral 
d. planar 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
34. Forces in ionic crystalline solids are primarily which of thefollowing?
a. covalent 
b. electrostatic 
c. Van der Waals 
d. magnetic 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
35. In which of the following is the "octet rule" violated?
a. CO2 
b. NH4 (read: N - H - 4 - plus) 
c. SO4 (read: S - O - 4 - 2 minus) 
d. NO2 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
36. Normality is defined as the number of:
a. moles of solute per 1000 grams of solvent 
b. equivalent weights of solute per liter of solution 
c. kilograms of solute per liter of solution 
d. moles of solute per 1000 grams of solution 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
37. The oxidation number of N in NaNO2 is:
a. +5 
b. +2 
c. +3 
d. -3 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
38. Which one of the following atoms has two unpaired electrons in itsground state:
a. Sodium 
b. Calcium 
c. Oxygen 
d. Aluminum 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
39. In which of the following compounds is the bonding most covalent?
a. NaCl 
b. F2 
c. MgS 
d. Fe3C 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
40. The elements in group 1A of the periodic table are called:
a. halogens 
b. alkaline earths 
c. alkali metals 
d. rare earths 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
41. Name the element discovered upon its extraction from pitchblende?
a. platinum 
b. uranium 
c. iridium 
d. plutonium 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
42. Cinnabar, pyrite and galena are minerals which consist of one ormore metals combined with the same element. Which one of the following is the element that iscommon to all three of these minerals? Is it:
a. iron 
b. copper 
c. sulfur 
d. sodium 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
43. Alpha rays are different from beta rays in one of the followingways. Are they different since:
a. alpha rays are deflected in a magnetic field and beta rays are not 
b. alpha rays are identical to the electron in mass, and beta rays are not 
c. alpha rays have a positive charge and beta rays have a negative charge 
d. alpha rays are produced within the nucleus and beta rays are produced outside the 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
44. Which one of the following statements is TRUE regarding themolar heat capacity for the noble gases?
a. heat capacity decreases from Helium to Xenon 
b. heat capacity increases from helium to argon 
c. heat capacity increases from Helium to Argon, then decreases to Xenon 
d. heat capacity is the same for all noble gases 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
45. Of the following types of material, which is the one that isheterogeneous? Is it:
a. quartz 
b. feldspar 
c. granite 
d. mica 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
46. Which of the following halogens does NOT replace the otherhalogens from their compounds?
a. fluorine 
b. iodine 
c. bromine 
d. chlorine 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
47. The bond in hydrogen chloride is which of the following types? Is it
a. ionic 
b. nonpolar covalent 
c. polar covalent 
d. covalent network 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
48. The bond in Fluorine is which of the following types? Is it
a. ionic 
b. nonpolar covalent 
c. polar covalent 
d. covalent network 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
49. Which of the following concentration expressions is defined as thenumber of moles of solute per kilogram of solvent:
a. molarity 
b. molality 
c. normality 
d. equivalents 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
50. Among the following, the substance that is considered to be theearliest stage in coal formation is:
a. sub-bituminous 
b. bituminous 
c. anthracite 
d. lignite 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
51. When an aldehyde is heated with Fehling's solution, the aldehydeundergoes one of the following processes. Does it undergo:
a. neutralization 
b. oxidation 
c. reduction 
d. esterification 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
52. The hydrolysis of a fat using a solution of a strong hydroxide iscalled:
a. neutralization 
b. esterification 
c. saponification 
d. condensation 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
53. In the common dry cell, the zinc atoms are:
a. reduced at the cathode 
b. oxidized at the cathode 
c. oxidized at the anode 
d. reduced at the anode 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
54. As one goes across a period in the periodic table, the ionizationenergy generally increases for one of the following reasons. Is it because of the increasing
a. atomic radius 
b. melting point 
c. nuclear charge 
d. density 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
55. Which of the following reactions involve NEITHER oxidation norreduction?
a. burning antimony in chlorine 
b. decomposition of potassium chlorate 
c. reaction of sodium with water 
d. reaction of potassium hydroxide with nitric acid 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
56. Who hypothesized that it would be impossible to know the exactlocation and exact momentum of a particle at the same time? Was it:
a. Heisenberg 
b. De Broglie 
c. Planck 
d. Schrodinger 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
57. mmonia can be considered a Lewis base because it can donate:
a. electrons 
b. protons 
c. hydronium ions 
d. hydroxide ions 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
58. Acids react with bases to form which of the following? Do theyform:
a. salt and acidic anhydride 
b. water and basic anhydride 
c. basic anhydride and salt 
d. salt and water 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
59. Which of the following is a metallic salt of a fatty acid? Is it:
a. soap 
b. plastic 
c. rubber 
d. petroleum 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
60. Which of the following choices are considered to be polymers ofamino acids? Are they:
a. nucleotides 
b. carbohydrates 
c. lipids 
d. proteins 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
61. Which of the following pairs of compounds could NOT be used tocreate a buffer solution? Would it be:
a. HCL and NaCl (read: H - C - L and N - A - C - L) 
b. HCN and NaCN (read: H - C - N and N - A - C - N) 
c. NH3 and NH4Cl (read: N - H - 3 and N - H - 4 - C - L) 
d. HNO2 and NaNO2 (read: H - N - O -2 and N - A - N - O - 2) 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
62. Which of the following scientists first stated the law of conservationof mass? Was it:
a. Lavoisier 
b. Dalton 
c. Proust 
d. Boyle 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
63. Which of the following scientists explained the photoelectric effect?Was it:
a. Einstein 
b. Planck 
c. Bohr 
d. Chadwick 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
64. Which of the following scientists hypothesized that it would bepossible for particles to have wave-like properties ? Was it:
a. Planck 
b. Heisenberg 
c. Einstein 
d. de Broglie 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
65. The triple bond between the carbon atoms causes acetylene, C2H2,to have which of the following shapes?
a. trigonal planar (pron: try-gon-al) 
b. linear 
c. tetrahedral 
d. trigonal bipyramidal 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
66. Which of the following four elements has the largest atomic radius?Is it:
a. strontium 
b. francium 
c. calcium 
d. bromine 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
67. Which of the following odors does the ester, methyl salicylate,produce? Is the odor that of:
a. cinnamon 
b. avocado 
c. orange 
d. oil of wintergreen 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
68. Ca(BrO3)2 (read: C - a, left parenthesis, B - r - O - subscript 3,right parenthesis, subscript 2) is called:
a. calcium bromate 
b. calcium bromite 
c. calcium dibromite 
d. calcium bromide 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
69. Which of the following are saturated aliphatic hydrocarbons?
a. alkanes 
b. alkenes 
c. alkynes 
d. nixanes 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
70. Sucrose, ordinary table sugar, may be classified as a:
a. Monosaccharide 
b. Disaccharide 
c. Polysaccharide 
d. Oligosaccharide 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
71. Pure water is approximately what molar concentration:
a. .55 Molar 
b. 5.5 Molar 
c. 55 Molar 
d. 550 Molar 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
72. The rate at which dissolution occurs is LEAST dependent uponwhich one of the following factors:
a. temperature 
b. pressure 
c. solution concentration 
d. solute surface area 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
73. Who was the first American chemist to receive a Nobel Prize? Hewas selected in 1914 for his precise determination of atomic weights.
a. Edward Frankland 
b. Theodore Richards 
c. John Bardeen 
d. Paul Dirac 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
74. Of the following, which has units of "Pascal".
a. force 
b. volume 
c. pressure 
d. viscosity 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
75. All alloys contain this element if they are amalga The element is:
a. iron 
b. mercury 
c. gold 
d. platinum 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
76. Azo (pron: A-zo) Compounds characteristically are compoundscontaining the group:
a. C2 
b. N2 
c. O2 
d. Cl2 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
77. This noncombustible liquid in its dry form is noncorrosive tocommon metals except aluminum. About 90% of all of this material which is manufactured goesinto the production of chlorofluorocarbons. Is this substance:
a. carbon tetrachloride 
b. methylene chloride 
c. hydrogen chloride 
d. methyl fluoride 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
78. A compound which contains two ring structures havi one commoncarbon atom is known as a:
a. spiro-compound 
b. nonpolar compound 
c. interstitial compound 
d. inner compound 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
79. Which of the following elements would form an acid oxide with theformula XO2 and an acidic compound with hydrogen with the formula XH2?
a. Sodium 
b. Magnesium 
c. Aluminum 
d. Sulfur 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
80. Which of the following would have the largest THIR ionizationenergy? Is it:
a. Boron 
b. Carbon 
c. Nitrogen 
d. Magnesium 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
81. How many atoms of oxygen are in a glucose molecule
a. 2 
b. 6 
c. 10 
d. 12 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
82. Which of the following compounds contains a double bond?
a. butene 
b. acetylene 
c. butane 
d. propane 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
83. An alcohol is related to an ester as a hydroxide compound is relatedto:
a. an acid 
b. a ketone 
c. an ether 
d. a salt 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
84. In any chemical reaction, a quantity that decrease to a minimum is:
a. free energy 
b. entropy 
c. temperature 
d. enthalpy 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
85. It is believed that carbon-14 in nature is slowly generated by theaction of:
a. protons on carbon-12 
b. electrons on hydrogen 
c. cosmic rays on boron 
d. neutrons on nitrogen 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
86. When water at 10!C is heated to 20!C, its internal energy:
a. changes by 10!C 
b. is doubled 
c. is less than doubled 
d. is more than doubled 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
87. In the filling of electron orbitals for the elemen sulfur, which has 16electrons, the number of electrons in the 3p orbitals is:
a. 3 
b. 4 
c. 6 
d. 0 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
88. Which of the following is the weakest acid?
a. hydrochloric acid 
b. hydrofluoric acid 
c. sulfuric acid 
d. nitric acid 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
89. A mystical substance supposedly released during combustion wascalled:
a. thermal flax 
b. ether 
c. caloric 
d. phlogiston (pron: flow-gis-ton) 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
90. Of the following liquids, which is most dense?
a. water 
b. gasoline 
c. acetone 
d. chloroform 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
91. Solids may be considered to be either crystalline noncrystalline.The basic difference between them is that a crystal, in contrast to a noncrystal:
a. has a sharp melting point 
b. has an irregular array of atoms 
c. exhibits double refraction 
d. has a completely regular atomic or molecular structure 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
92. The Rate Law expresses the rate of a reaction in terms of theconcentrations of the:
a. reactants 
b. products 
c. by-products 
d. catalysts 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
93. Hydrocarbons that contain a triple bond between carbon atoms areknown as:
a. alkenes 
b. alkanes 
c. alkynes 
d. polymers 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
94. Which of the following metals melts in your hand?
a. gallium 
b. cesium 
c. sodium 
d. magnesium 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
95. When vinegar and baking soda are mixed together, w gas isformed
a. oxygen 
b. nitrogen 
c. carbon dioxide 
d. hydrogen 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
96. The atoms in sugar are bound by what type of bond?
a. ionic 
b. hydrogen 
c. covalent 
d. van der Waals 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
97. Which is an example of a polymer?
a. salt 
b. oil 
c. plastic 
d. glucose 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
98. Vegetable oil is made into margarine through:
a. halogenation 
b. partial hydrogenation 
c. methylation 
d. oxidation 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
99. What is the name given to the equation PV=nRT?
a. law of partial pressure 
b. ideal gas equation 
c. quadratic equation 
d. Raoult's equation 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
100. Which of the following elements can form the great number ofcovalent bonds?
a. carbon 
b. nitrogen 
c. oxygen 
d. sulfur 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
101. Which of the following elements forms a tetrahedra structure?
a. carbon 
b. beryllium 
c. boron 
d. fluorine 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
102. Which of the following metals is a solid at room temperature, yetmelts in your hand?
a. gallium 
b. cesium 
c. sodium 
d. magnesium 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
103. 2.5 liters of a sodium chloride (NaCl) solution contain 5 moles ofthe solute. What is the molarity?
a. 5 molar 
b. 2 molar 
c. 2.5 molar 
d. 12.5 molar 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
104. The structure of an ammonia molecule can best be described as:
a. linear 
b. tetrahedral 
c. pyramidal 
d. triagonal planar 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
105. How many moles of carbon are in 48 grams of carbon
a. 4 
b. 3 
c. 2 
d. 1 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
106. Crude oil is separated into its components by:
a. chemical reaction 
b. simple distillation 
c. fractional distillation 
d. settling 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
107. What force between molecules tends to cause most common gasesto behave as non-ideal gases?
a. Van der Waals' force 
b. ionic bonding force 
c. gravitational force 
d. covalent bonding force 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
108. What is the name given to the non-superimposable mirror imageforms of chiral compounds?
a. cis-trans 
b. enantiomers 
c. functional isomers 
d. diasteriomers 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
109. Which of the following is the EMPIRICAL formula of dodecane?
a. C5H11 
b. C6H13 
c. C10H22 
d. C12H26 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
110. Copper is refined commercially by a process of:
a. smelting 
b. electrolysis 
c. sublimation 
d. roasting 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
111. The action of concentrated sulfuric acid on sugar best described as:
a. catalysis 
b. oxidation 
c. reduction 
d. dehydration 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
112. A metal that does NOT occur native in the earth is
a. copper 
b. gold 
c. sodium 
d. silver 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
113. Under similar conditions, which of the following i is the bestreducing agent under similar conditions?
a. fluoride ion 
b. chloride ion 
c. bromide ion 
d. iodide ion 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
114. How many carbon atoms are there in one napthalene molecule?
a. 6 
b. 8 
c. 10 
d. 15 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
115. A process in which substances are separated throug differences inthe rates at which the components migrate is called:
a. filtration 
b. chromatography 
c. elution 
d. titration 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
116. Which bond has the LEAST ionic character?
a. H - F 
b. Li - F 
c. Li - Br 
d. F - F 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
117. The lanthanide series elements are also known as:
a. rare earth elements 
b. non-metals 
c. fifth period elements 
d. sixth period elements 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
118. If the first ionization energy of magnesium is 176 kilocalories permole, one would expect the second ionization energy t be approximately:
a. 350 kilocalories per mole 
b. 1,760 kilocalories per mole 
c. 200 kilocalories per mole 
d. 20 kilocalories per mole 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
119. Ferrous is an equivalent name for which of the following?
a. Iron (IV) (pron: iron-4) 
b. Iron (III) (pron: iron-3) 
c. Iron (II) (pron: iron-2) 
d. Iron (I) (pron: iron-1) 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
120. Mass percentage of carbon in CO2 is approximately:
a. 37.5% 
b. 27.3% 
c. 75% 
d. 45% 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
121. Harold Clayton Urey, an American, received the 193 Nobel Prize inchemistry for his discovery of:
a. Francium 
b. Americium 
c. deuterium 
d. protium 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
122. The most abundant element in the universe is thoug to be:
a. carbon 
b. oxygen 
c. hydrogen 
d. nitrogen 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
123. The 1936 Nobel Prize in chemistry was awarded to Peter J.W.Debye for his studies of:
a. kinetic energy of colliding particles 
b. electron configuration 
c. dipole moments 
d. conformations of cyclohexane 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
124. The inventor of the Kelvin temperature scale was:
a. K. Cavendish II 
b. Lord William H. Harrison 
c. Sir William Thomson 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
125. "Under the same conditions of temperature and pressure, thevolumes of reacting gases and of their gaseous products are expressed in ratios of small wholenumbers." This law is attributed to:
a. Dalton 
b. Gay-Lussac 
c. Ramsay 
d. Avogadro 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
126. The type of crystal lattice exemplified in a diamo is:
a. ionic crystal 
b. covalent network crystal 
c. metallic crystal 
d. covalent molecular crystal 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
127. A crystallized substance containing water of crystallization is mostappropriately termed:
a. a hydrate 
b. an oxide 
c. a hydroxide 
d. a condensation crystal 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
128. The loss of water of crystallization from a hydrat when exposed toair is termed:
a. efflorescence (pron: eh-floor-es-ence) 
b. deliquescence (pron: del-i-kwes-ence) 
c. quiescence (pron: kwi-es-ence) 
d. anhydrogenation 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
129. Mayonnaise is:
a. a coalescent solution 
b. a hydrogenated oil 
c. a covalent solution 
d. an emulsion 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
130. "The solubility of a gas in a liquid is directly proportional to thepressure of the gas above the liquid" is a fair statem of:
a. Dalton's secondary law 
b. Le Chatelier's solubility principle 
c. Henry's law 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
131. Solubility of a gas in a liquid exhibits what type proportionality tothe liquid temperature?
a. direct 
b. inverse 
c. logarithmic 
d. exponential 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
132. A negative heat of solution indicates that:
a. an endothermic dissolving process occurs 
b. solute solubility increases with rising solution temperature 
c. solute solubility decreases with rising solution temperature 
d. super-saturation conditions exist 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
133. A colligative property depends on:
a. chemical properties of particles in system 
b. physical properties of particles in system 
c. number of particles present in system 
d. all of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
134. My theory of electrolytic dissociation earned me t 1903 Nobel Prizein chemistry. My name is:
a. Niels Bohr 
b. Svante Arrhenius 
c. Michael Faraday 
d. John Cavendish 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
135. A net ionic equation does NOT show:
a. electronic charges 
b. solid products (precipitates) 
c. spectator ions 
d. reacting species 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
136. The theory of interionic attraction attributed to Debye and H�ckel:
a. was disproved by Arrhenius 
b. accounts quantitatively for the attraction between ions in dilute aqueous solutions 
c. does not account for kindered "ion-activity" 
d. accounts for intra-molecular polar bonds 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
137. HCl is dissolved in solvent A; the solution is non-conductingtowards an electric current. Solvent A must be:
a. polar 
b. non-polar 
c. organic 
d. more acidic than HCl 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
138. HClO3 is commonly named:
a. hydrochloric acid 
b. chloric acid 
c. perchloric acid 
d. chlorous acid 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
139. Any species that acts as an electron-pair acceptor a:
a. Lewis base 
b. Bronsted base 
c. Lewis acid 
d. Bronsted acid 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
140. Amphoteric substances:
a. act as either bases or acids 
b. precipatate from aqueous solutions 
c. salt out of basic solutions 
d. form emulsions in oils 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
141. One equivalent of a triprotic acid is the same as:
a. one mole of the acid 
b. one-third mole of the acid 
c. three moles of the acid 
d. three equivalents of a diprotic acid 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
142. The pH range over which an indicator color change occurs isreferred to as its:
a. titration range 
b. titration constant 
c. transition interval 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
143. In a photosynthesis reaction, chlorophyll is:
a. a reactant 
b. a product
c. a catalyst 
d. an intermediate 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
144. All systems of measurement use the same units for which of thefollowing?
a. mass 
b. time 
c. force 
d. volume 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
145. If the temperature of the atmosphere rose 50 degr on a Fahrenheitthermometer, the rise on a Celsius thermometer would have been:
a. 90 degrees 
b. 82.3 degrees 
c. 50.3 degrees 
d. 27.8 degrees 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
146. In which of the branches of chemistry would the development of atheory about how a reaction takes place best be carried o
a. analytical 
b. inorganic 
c. organic 
d. physical 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
147. Which class of solids could have London Forces the attractiveforces between particles in crystal lattice positions?
a. ionic 
b. covalent 
c. metallic 
d. molecular 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
148. Surface tension of liquids is the result of which the following:
a. interaction of a liquid with its container 
b. unbalanced forces on the liquid's surface molecules 
c. adhesive forces of the liquid 
d. interaction of the liquid's surface molecules and the applied pressure 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
149. Which of the following liquid types would have th highestviscosity?
a. low molecular mass-polar liquid 
b. high molecular mass-polar liquid 
c. low molecular mass-nonpolar liquid 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
150. What two primary factors determine whether or no molecularcollision leads to a chemical reaction?
a. energy and volume of molecules 
b. energy and mass of molecules 
c. energy and orientation of molecules 
d. orientation and volume of molecules 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
151. An Arrhenius acid is a substance that:
a. donates protons 
b. accepts protons 
c. donates hydrogen ions to water 
d. donates hydroxide ions to water 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
152. Dacron is a:
a. polyamide 
b. polyester 
c. polyether 
d. polyolefin 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
153. Which of the following is produced when polyvinyl chloride isburned
a. Hydrogen Cyanide 
b. Hydrogen Chloride 
c. Nitrogen Oxide 
d. Oxygen 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
154. Which of the following best describes Nylon?
a. polyamide 
b. polyester 
c. polyolefin 
d. acrylic 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
155. Which of the following compounds contains both io and covalentbonds?
a. Calcium Chloride 
b. Carbon Dioxide 
c. Calcium Fluoride 
d. Calcium Sulfate 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
156. Which of the following compounds is the strongest acid?
a. NH3 
b. PH3 
c. H2O 
d. H2S 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
157. Which of the following compounds is the strongest base?
a. NH3 
b. PH3 
c. H2O 
d. H2S 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
158. Which of the following molecules does NOT have a dipole momentof zero
a. BeCl2 
b. BF3 
c. CO2 
d. NH3 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
159. Which of the following minerals is a source of iro
a. Bauxite (pron: box-ite) 
b. Hematite (pron: he-ma-tite) 
c. Malachite (pron: mal-ah-kite) 
d. Galena (pron: ga-lee-nah) 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
160. Which of the following metals is LEAST reactive towardatmospheric oxygen?
a. Lead 
b. Copper 
c. Iron 
d. Aluminum 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
161. Which of the following are alloying materials used the manufactureof stainless steel?
a. Limestone and carbon 
b. Calcium oxide and oxygen 
c. Oxygen and sulfur dioxide 
d. Chromium and nickel 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
162. Which of the following materials are used in the manufacture of pigiron from iron ore?
a. Limestone and carbon 
b. Calcium oxide and oxygen 
c. Chromium and nickel 
d. Oxygen and sulfur dioxide 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
163. How many neighboring atoms are in contact with eac atom in amonatomic body-centered cubic structure.
a. 4 
b. 6 
c. 8 
d. 12 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
164. Members of which of the following classes of compounds generallyproduce acidic solutions when dissolved in water?
a. metal oxides 
b. nonmetal oxides 
c. alcohols 
d. aldehydes 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
165. Which of the following substances is a molecular solid?
a. Glass 
b. Ice 
c. Silver 
d. Table Salt 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
166. Which of the following substances is an ionic netw solid?
a. Diamond 
b. Table Salt 
c. Brass 
d. Dry ice 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
167. Which of the following compounds has the highest boiling point?
a. CH4 
b. CCL4 
c. HI 
d. IF5 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
168. Which of the following compounds has the lowest boiling points?
a. CH4 
b. CCl4 
c. PH3 
d. PCl3 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
169. What is the primary constituent of marble?
a. Calcium carbonate 
b. Calcium sulfate 
c. Hydroxyapatite 
d. Chloroapatite 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
170. An aqueous solution whose concentration effectivel matches theconcentration of blood is said to be:
a. isotopic 
b. isobaric 
c. isotonic 
d. isoelectronic 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
171. A family of organic compounds whose molecules will add waterunder an acid catalysis and change into alcohols are the:
a. alkenes 
b. alkanes 
c. aromatic hydrocarbons 
d. cycloalkanes 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
172. The substance whose chemical formula is CH3OH is known as
a. carbonated water 
b. grain alcohol 
c. potable alcohol 
d. methanol 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
173. The azimuthal quantum number determines the:
a. spin of an electron 
b. shape of an orbital 
c. size of an orbital 
d. energy of an orbital 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
174. An orbital for which n=3 and l = 1 (read: ell equa 1) is called a:
a. 2d orbital 
b. 3d orbital 
c. 3s orbital 
d. 3p orbital 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
175. The elements that have an outer electron configuration ns2 (read: n- s - 2) are called:
a. halogens 
b. transition metals 
c. alkaline earths 
d. noble gases 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
176. Unpaired electrons are present in ground-state ato of:
a. Helium 
b. Calcium 
c. Oxygen 
d. Magnesium 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
177. How many unpaired electrons are there in the groun state of Al3+?
a. 0 
b. 1 
c. 2 
d. 3 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
178. Of the following elements which has the largest atomic radius?
a. Ba 
b. F 
c. C 
d. Be 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
179. Which of the following species has the smallest equilibriumseparation for its ion-pair?
a. KF 
b. LiF 
c. BaBr 
d. NaCl 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
180. Which of the following molecules exhibit resonance
a. OF3 
b. HNO3 
c. C2H4 
d. PCl3 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
181. The molecular shape of formaldehyde, H2CO, is:
a. linear 
b. trigonal planar 
c. bent 
d. tetrahedral 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
182. Which of the following molecules is linear?
a. SO2 
b. O3 
c. XeF2 
d. H2S 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
183. Which of the following molecules would have the smallest molarenthalpy of vaporization?
a. Water 
b. Formaldehyde 
c. Methane 
d. Ammonia 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
184. Which of the following compounds is ONLY WEAKLY soluble incold water?
a. Silver Nitrate 
b. Sodium Carbonate 
c. Sodium Chloride 
d. Lead Chloride 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
185. Radioactive decay is a:
a. zero-order process 
b. temperature-dependent process 
c. first-order process 
d. second-order process 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
186. The first organic compound synthesized in 1828 by FrederichWohler was:
a. benzene 
b. urea 
c. estrogen 
d. methane 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
187. Moth balls contain:
a. formalin 
b. chitin (pron: kite-en) 
c. formaldehyde 
d. naphthalene 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
188. In commercial vulcanization, crosslinking is introduced by theaddition of:
a. sulfur 
b. toluene 
c. silicon 
d. phosphorus 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
189. The alcohol with lowest molecular weight is:
a. isopropanol 
b. propanol 
c. ethanol 
d. methanol 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
190. The chemical symbol for antimony is:
a. An 
b. Sn 
c. Sb 
d. At 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
191. Which of the following inert gas atoms is the heaviest?
a. xenon 
b. neon 
c. radon 
d. krypton 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
192. The major constituent of marsh gas is:
a. methane 
b. propane 
c. benzene 
d. ethanol 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
193. The element used in treating manic depression is:
a. sulfur 
b. nitrogen 
c. calcium 
d. lithium 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
194. Teflon is produced by polymerizing ethylene which hydrogensubstituted with one of the following elements:
a. teflinium 
b. tin 
c. fluorine 
d. carbon 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
195. Cyclohexanone is an example of:
a. an aldehyde 
b. a carboxylic acid 
c. an alkyne 
d. a ketone 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
196. One source of Acid Rain is:
a. sulfur in fossil fuels 
b. carbon in coal 
c. hydrogen in hydrocarbons 
d. chloroflorocarbons in aerosols 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
197. Chlorine is used in swimming pools as a disinfecta In its natural,standard state it is a:
a. blue liquid 
b. colorless crystals 
c. yellow-green gas 
d. reddish-brown gas 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
198. What is the pH of an aqueous solution of 0.1 molar HCl?
a. 7 
b. 13 
c. 1 
d. 3 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
199. Which of the following four compounds would have t most ionicbond?
a. CH4 
b. LiF 
c. CsF 
d. N2 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
200. Charcoal is 'activated' by:
a. heating it in the absence of air 
b. heating it in steam 
c. destructive distillation 
d. absorption 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
201. Which of the following atoms or ions would be the smallest?
a. sodium atom 
b. magnesium atom 
c. singly charged sodium ion 
d. doubly charged magnesium ion 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
202. Which of the following chemists was the first to use letters assymbols for elements?
a. Ernest Oliver Lawrence 
b. Louis Andrew Proust 
c. Jons Jacob Berzelius 
d. none of these 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
203. Which of the following indicates the shape of the orbital in which theelectron moves?
a. principal quantum number 
b. spin quantum number 
c. angular momentum quantum number 
d. none of these 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
204. Which of the following terms refers to the energy released when anelectron is added to a neutral atom?
a. electrovalence 
b. electron affinity 
c. electroconductance 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
205. Which of the following elements has the highest electronegativity?
a. Lithium 
b. Iodine 
c. Cesium 
d. Oxygen 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
206. For which molecule can the bonding be described in terms of sp3hybrid orbitals of the central atom?
a. CH4 
b. SF6 
c. BF3 
d. PCL5 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
207. Which of the following molecules has a dipole moment?
a. BF3 
b. NH3 
c. CCL4 
d. CH4 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
208. Which of the following chemical reactions does not lead toformation of a salt?
a. Reaction of salts with acids. 
b. The reaction of base anhydrides with acid anhydrides. 
c. Action of water on oxides of nonmetals. 
d. Reaction of acid with base. 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
209. Which of the following elements gains electrons most readily?
a. Sodium 
b. Magnesium 
c. Aluminum 
d. Fluorine 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
210. The pH of water will be decreased to below pH 7 by the hydrolysisof which of the following?
a. sodium carbonate 
b. sodium chloride 
c. ammonium chloride 
d. potassium bromide 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
211. Pi bonds are formed by the overlap of:
a. unhybridized p orbitals 
b. sp2 hybridized orbitals 
c. sp hybridized orbitals 
d. unhybridized s orbitals 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
212. A triple bond consists of:
a. three sigma bonds 
b. three pi bonds 
c. two sigma bonds and one pi bond 
d. one sigma bond and two pi bonds 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
213. Cubic crystals containing lattice points only at the corners are called:
a. body centered 
b. face centered 
c. simple 
d. hexagonal 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
214. Which of the following is not a covalent network solid?
a. silicon dioxide 
b. silicon oxide 
c. boron nitrate 
d. sodium oxide 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
215. The conjugate acid of water is:
a. OH
b. H2
c. O2 
d. H3O+ 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
216. The modern atomic theory was conceived by :
a. Victor Grignard 
b. Daniel Rutherford 
c. Svante Arrhenius 
d. John Dalton 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
217. The percent composition by mass of copper in anhydrous cupricsulfate is about:
a. 10% 
b. 25% 
c. 40% 
d. 75% 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
218. Which of the following terms best fits the statement: "Process bywhich polysaccharides are degraded to monosaccharides."
a. hydrolysis 
b. glycolosis 
c. lipogenesis 
d. none of the above 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
219. Which of the following is NOT a base in DNA?
a. uracil 
b. guanine 
c. adenine 
d. cytosine 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
220. A bond in which there is an unequal attraction for the sharedelectrons and a resultant unbalanced distribution of charge is which one of the following types ofbonds?
a. ionic 
b. pure covalent 
c. nonpolar covalent 
d. polar covalent 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
221. In protolytic reactions in which the reactants are much stronger asan acid and a base than the products, the proton transfer reaction:
a. does not occur 
b. approaches completeness 
c. produces a much stronger acid and a much weaker base 
d. produces a much weaker acid and a much stronger base 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
222. Chemically, fats are esters of long carbon-chain acids and which ofthe following:
a. ethanol 
b. glycerol 
c. ethylene glycol 
d. sodium hydroxide 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
223. Which of the following pairs of numbers best represents thediameter, in nanometers, of most atoms?
a. between 0.1 and 0.5 
b. between 1 and 10 
c. between 10 and 100 
d. between 10,000 and 1,000,000 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
224. Which of the following Greek philosophers proposed the firstatomic theory around 400 B.C.? Was it
a. Plato 
b. Archimedes 
c. Aristotle 
d. Democritus 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
225. How many water molecules are contained in Cobalt (II) sulfateheptahydrate?
a. 3 
b. 6 
c. 8 
d. 7 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
226. Which of the following is NOT oxidized by chlorine?
a. F- (read: F minus) 
b. Br- (read: B - R minus) 
c. F2 (read: F - 2) 
d. I- (read: I minus) 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
227. Gels and Foams are classified as
a. solutions 
b. emulsions 
c. colloids 
d. suspensions 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
228. Which of the following chemical compounds is an importantaromatic hydrocarbon. Is it:
a. methane 
b. ethane 
c. benzene 
d. propyne 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
229. In 2-butene, which of the following bonds prevents the atoms ateach end of the bond from rotating with respect to each other. Is it an:
a. ionic bond 
b. sigma bond 
c. strong bond 
d. double bond 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
230. Which of the following scientists first determined the atomic numberof an atom by use of X-rays? Is it:
a. Millikan 
b. Planck 
c. Thompson 
d. Moseley 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
231. Which of the following is the primary reason for adding calciumcarbonate to the reduction process of iron oxide ores ? The calcium carbonate:
a. acts as an oxidizing agent 
b. removes silicate waste products 
c. acts as a reducing agent 
d. removes sulfur waste products 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
232. Which of the following odors does the ester isoamyl isovalerateproduce? Is it an odor of:
a. bananas 
b. apples 
c. cherries 
d. strawberries 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
233. Which of the following substances would be the best choice toneutralize aqueous Sodium Hydroxide?
a. sodium carbonate 
b. silicon dioxide 
c. aluminum oxide 
d. phosphorus pentoxide 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
234. Which of the following group of compounds is most soluble inwater?
a. alkanes (pron: ak-KANES) 
b. alcohols 
c. aldehydes (pron: al-deh-HIDES) 
d. alkenes (pron: al-KEENS) 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
235. In which of the following class of substances would WAX be found?
a. carbohydrates 
b. lipids 
c. proteins 
d. nucleic acids 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
236. Which of the following yields a substance other than glucose ondegradation by water?
a. Cellulose 
b. Glycogen 
c. Sucrose 
d. Maltose 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
237. In what category may LIPASE (pron: lie-pase) be placed
a. carbohydrates 
b. lipids 
c. enzymes 
d. nucleic acids 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
238. The hydrocarbon end of a detergent molecule is:
a. hydrophilic 
b. hydrophobic 
c. possible ionic 
d. contains oxygen or sulfur 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
239. An amine contains which one of the following functional groups?
a. NO2 
b. NOH 
c. NH2 
d. N2 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
240. The molar volume of which two elements is the same at standardtemperature and pressure?
a. fluorine and bromine 
b. fluorine and iodine 
c. fluorine and chlorine 
d. bromine and iodine 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
241. Which one of the following elements is not found in nature?
a. Technetium 
b. Iridium 
c. Osmium 
d. Molybdenum 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
242. The class of compounds implicated in the Antarctic ozonedestruction is:
a. RBC's 
b. DDT's 
c. CFC's 
d. PCB's 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
243. Which one of the following compounds is amphiprotic in water?
a. sodium chloride 
b. sodium sulfate 
c. sodium hydride 
d. sodium hydrogen carbonate 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
244. In a liquid crystal, what is the name given to the simplest orderingof molecules?
a. Nematic 
b. Smectic 
c. Cholesteric 
d. Lipidic 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
245. Which of the following molecules or ions is NOT formed when Kmetal reacts with liquid CH3OH? Is it:
a. potassium ion 
b. hydrogen ion 
c. methoxy ion 
d. hydrogen molecule 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
246. "Mirror-image" molecules are called:
a. stereoisomers 
b. structural isomers 
c. diastereomers 
d. constitional isomers 
ANS: A
TOP: CHEM
247. What is the only nonmetal element that is a liquid roomtemperature?
a. phosphorus 
b. bromine 
c. iodine 
d. arsenic 
ANS: B
TOP: CHEM
248. Which of the following compounds will be a nonelectrolyte whendissolved in water?
a. sodium chloride 
b. potassium nitrate 
c. ethanol 
d. hydrogen chloride 
ANS: C
TOP: CHEM
249. What is the molarity of a salt solution prepared b dissolving threemoles of salt in 500 milliliters of water?
a. 1 
b. 2 
c. 4 
d. 6 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
250. Dry ice is the solid form of what gas?
a. nitrogen 
b. oxygen 
c. helium 
d. carbon dioxide 
ANS: D
TOP: CHEM
