Science Bowl Earth_and_space_science

Multiple Choice

1. The ice sheet that covered northeastern United States came fromwhich of the following locations?
a. Labrador center in eastern Canada 
b. Keewatin center in central Canada 
c. Cordilleran center in the Rocky Mountains 
d. Greenland 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
2. A volcano which is composed of lava flows and pyroclastic materialand which is steep-sided and very tall is known as:
a. Syncline 
b. Composite cone 
c. Anticline 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
3. The solidified lava of a volcano belongs to which rock family? Is it:
a. igneous 
b. metamorphic 
c. sedimentary 
d. fossilized 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
4. In geological studies, a dome shaped intrusion is called a:
a. volcanic neck 
b. laccolith 
c. nuee ardente 
d. caldera 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
5. Shiprock in New Mexico is a:
a. laccolith 
b. volcanic neck 
c. cinder cone 
d. caldera 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
6. Iceland has a great deal of volcanic activity. The reason for this is:
a. it was formed above a mid-ocean rift. 
b. it is part of the "Ring of Fire". 
c. two tectonic plates are rubbing against each other under Iceland. 
d. the American plate is diving under the European plate in this region. 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
7. Of the following, the rock that is most resistant to both chemical andmechanical weathering is:
a. shale 
b. limestone 
c. marble 
d. quartzite 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
8. Which of the following energy sources does NOT originally comefrom the Sun?
a. wind 
b. Ocean thermal energy conversion 
c. geothermal 
d. hydroelectric 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
9. What percentage of the earth's atmosphere does O2 comprise?
a. 75% 
b. 50% 
c. 21% 
d. 32% 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
10. The tanning rays of the sun are called:
a. infrared rays 
b. visible light 
c. ultraviolet rays 
d. gamma rays 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
11. What is the relative humidity when the absolute humidity is 3 gramsper cubic meter and the air has a capacity of 12 grams per cubic meter?
a. 4% 
b. 9% 
c. 25% 
d. 400% 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
12. While many different gases are found in the atmosphere, a numberdo NOT contribute significantly to solar heating of the atmosphere. Which TWO of the followinggases do NOT absorb much heat?
a. carbon dioxide 
b. nitrogen 
c. water vapor 
d. oxygen 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
13. Global climate change is being attributed to the atmospheric increasein what two gases produced by human activities?
a. oxygen and hydrogen 
b. ozone and methane 
c. nitrous oxide and sulfur dioxide 
d. methane and carbon dioxide 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
14. The concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is in therange of:
a. 1-10 parts per million 
b. 10-100 parts per million 
c. 100-1000 parts per million 
d. 1000-10,000 parts per million 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
15. In geological studies, all of the following are TRUE of P wavesexcept that they:
a. are body waves 
b. travel like sound waves 
c. can pass through liquids 
d. are slower than S waves 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
16. Which of the following terms is used to describe the appearance of amineral in transmitted light? Is it:
a. diaphaneity (pron: die-ah-fah-na-ah-tee) 
b. translucence 
c. opaqueness 
d. porosity 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
17. In geological studies, arkose contains which of th following mineralswhich gives it a reddish color?
a. orthoclase 
b. calcite 
c. aragonite (pron: a-rag-o-nite) 
d. quartz 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
18. Which one of the following minerals does NOT contain silicatetrahedrons?
a. quartz 
b. muscovite 
c. halite 
d. orthoclase 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
19. Which of the following minerals is noted for its one perfectcleavage?
a. calcite 
b. muscovite 
c. quartz 
d. pyrite 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
20. Which of the following gases is given off in the acid test of acarbonate mineral?
a. chlorine 
b. nitrogen 
c. carbon dioxide 
d. sulfur dioxide 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
21. Fine parallel lines, or striations, are most likel to be seen on acleavage surface of which of the following minerals?
a. quartz 
b. orthoclase 
c. hornblende 
d. plagioclase (pron: play-gee-o-klase) 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
22. Which of the following minerals is NOT a silicate?
a. orthoclase 
b. muscovite 
c. augite (pron: aw-jIt) 
d. magnetite 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
23. Which of the following pairs contains one igneous and onesedimentary rock?
a. shale and marble 
b. sandstone and quartzite 
c. granite and limestone 
d. obsidian and gneiss 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
24. Which of these pairs of minerals are always found in granites?
a. muscovite and calcite 
b. quartz and orthoclase 
c. hornblende and talc 
d. augite and magnetite 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
25. An example of a rock whose minerals have been crushed into thinsheets or bands is:
a. shale 
b. schist 
c. conglomerate 
d. granite 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
26. The hydrolysis of orthoclase results in the formation of:
a. shale 
b. kaolin 
c. lime 
d. hydrochloric acid 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
27. The deposits of loess in the United States probabl originated aswhich of the following?
a. talus 
b. rock flour 
c. humus 
d. geyserite 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
28. This sedimentary rock was used to build the Pantheon and theColossium:
a. marble 
b. travertine 
c. sandstone 
d. ironstone 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
29. Which of the following is an igneous rock?
a. Granite 
b. Shale 
c. Coal 
d. Slate 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
30. Which of the following is a metamorphic rock?
a. sandstone 
b. granite 
c. quartz 
d. marble 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
31. The black sand of the Hawaiian Islands is composed of which of thefollowing?
a. dark limestone 
b. quartz 
c. gypsum 
d. basalt 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
32. All of the following are examples of chemically precipitatedsedimentary rock except:
a. limestone 
b. sandstone 
c. dolomite 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
33. Which of the following materials is the hardest?
a. calcite 
b. silicon carbide 
c. topaz 
d. quartz 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
34. Igneous rocks that form from magma are known as:
a. minerals 
b. granite 
c. intrusive rocks 
d. gneiss (pron: nice) 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
35. The mineral halite is:
a. potassium chloride 
b. sodium chloride 
c. calcium chloride 
d. calcium bromide 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
36. What is the name of the white clay which has been used forthousands of years in the fabrication of ceramic bodies? Is it:
a. Talc 
b. Kaolin 
c. Feldspar 
d. Quartz 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
37. An agate is a form of what mineral?
a. magnetite 
b. feldspar 
c. quartz 
d. copper 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
38. Which of the following is the name of the partly melted rock layer onwhich the plates move?
a. lithosphere 
b. asthenosphere 
c. hydrosphere 
d. outer core 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
39. Which of the following areas is closest to the total surface area ofthe earth in square kilometers?
a. 500 million 
b. 500 billion 
c. 500 thousand 
d. 5 billion 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
40. We know that the OUTER core is liquid because:
a. P waves pass through it 
b. S waves pass through it 
c. P waves cannot pass through it 
d. S waves cannot pass through it 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
41. Field capacity represents the maximum quantity of water held:
a. in the soil against the force of gravity 
b. in the ground water zone 
c. in the intermediate zone 
d. below the water table 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
42. Trade winds are persistent easterly winds develope between:
a. subtropical high pressure and equatorial doldrum 
b. subtropical high pressure and subpolar low pressure 
c. westerlies and polar highs 
d. none of the above 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
43. An open-ocean community is also called a:
a. pelagic community (pron: pe-laj-ick) 
b. benthic community (pron: ben-thik) 
c. lentic community (pron: len-tick) 
d. lotic community (pron: lot-ick) 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
44. A lake or pond community is also known as a:
a. pelagic community (pron: pe-laj-ick) 
b. benthic community (pron: ben-thick) 
c. lentic community (pron: len-tick) 
d. lotic community (pron: lot-ick) 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
45. The tectonic plates on which India and the adjacen portion of Asiaride are colliding at a rate of:
a. 1-10 millimeters per year 
b. 1-10 centimeters per year 
c. 1-10 meters per year 
d. 1-10 decimeters per year 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
46. In which of these states can large numbers of drumlins be found?
a. Oregon 
b. California 
c. Texas 
d. Wisconsin 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
47. Which one of these glacial features is believed to have formed in thebed of a subglacial stream?
a. an esker 
b. a kame 
c. a drumlin 
d. a moraine 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
48. In which of the following is a continental glacier found?
a. Switzerland 
b. the Rockies 
c. Greenland 
d. the Andes Mountains 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
49. Deposits that form when the ice in a glacier melts are called:
a. drifts 
b. dunes 
c. veins 
d. cirques (pron: serks) 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
50. The earth's climate has been warming since the las glacial periodwhich ended about how many years ago?
a. 1,000 to 2,000 years ago 
b. 10,000 to 20,000 years ago 
c. 100,000 to 200,000 years ago 
d. 1,000,000 to 2,000,000 years ago 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
51. Cirrus clouds are:
a. rain clouds 
b. thick and fleecy 
c. made of ice crystals 
d. low cloud layers 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
52. The name of a rapid rise of coastal water that accompanies thearrival of a cyclone is called:
a. hurricane 
b. storm surge 
c. tidal wave 
d. cyclonistat 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
53. Certain substances are classified as water pollutants, others as airpollutants and still others as land pollutants. Which of the following pollutes all three parts of ourenvironment?
a. fluorocarbons 
b. smog 
c. acid rain 
d. ozone 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
54. Which is true for Low-Latitude Climates?
a. have a winter season 
b. lack a winter season 
c. are wet throughout the year 
d. are dry throughout the year 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
55. The Greenhouse Effect is caused primarily by which of the followingprocesses?
a. blocking incoming short wave solar energy 
b. absorbing incoming short wave solar energy 
c. heating of the Earth's stratosphere 
d. absorbing outgoing long wave radiation from the Earth 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
56. Fluorite is what number on Moh's hardness scale?
a. 1 
b. 2 
c. 3 
d. 4 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
57. Apatite is what number on Moh's (pron: moes: rhyme with toes)hardness scale?
a. 1 
b. 3 
c. 5 
d. 7 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
58. Hematite is a primary ore of which of the followin metals?
a. zinc 
b. tungsten 
c. iron 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
59. Galena is a primary ore of which of the following metals?
a. zinc 
b. tungsten 
c. lead 
d. silver 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
60. Sphalerite is a primary ore of which of the following metals?
a. zinc 
b. tin 
c. copper 
d. iron 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
61. Which of the following minerals is a source of copper?
a. Bauxite (pron: box-ite) 
b. Hematite 
c. Malachite 
d. Galena 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
62. Which physical phenomenon or principle is most often applied in thesearch for petroleum reservoirs?
a. gravitational attraction 
b. magnetic field distortions 
c. natural radioactive decay of minerals 
d. acoustic wave transmission and reflection 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
63. Which of the following time periods describes the age of the coaldeposits of the Eastern United States?
a. Jurassic and Cambrian 
b. Mississippian and Pennsylvanian 
c. Pliocene and Miocene 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
64. Of the following four geologic periods, which is the oldest?
a. Devonian 
b. Silurian 
c. Permian 
d. Jurassic 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
65. Of the following four geologic periods, which is the most recent?
a. Devonian 
b. Silurian 
c. Permian 
d. Jurassic 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
66. On the Phanerozoic (pron: fan-eh-reh-zO-ik) Time Scale, which ofthe following geologic periods occurred approximately 225 to 280 million years ago? Is it:
a. Jurassic 
b. Permian 
c. Carboniferous 
d. Silurian 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
67. On the Phanerozoic (pron: fan-eh-row-zo-ick) Time Scale, which ofthe following geologic periods occurred approximately 395 to 430 million years ago? Is it:
a. Jurassic (pron: ju-ras-ick) 
b. Permian 
c. Carboniferous 
d. Silurian 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
68. On the Phanerozoic (pron: fan-eh-reh-zO-ik) time scale, which of thefollowing geologic periods occurred approximately 500 to 570 million years ago? Is it:
a. Cambrian 
b. Ordovician (pron: ord-eh-vish-en) 
c. Carboniferous 
d. Silurian 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
69. The Miocene, Eocene and Paleocene epoches belong t what geologicperiod on the Phanerozoic Time Scale? Is it the:
a. Devonian 
b. Permian 
c. Triassic (pron: try-as-ick) 
d. Tertiary 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
70. During which period, in the earth's history, did MOST dinosaursbecome extinct?
a. Carboniferous 
b. Cretaceous 
c. Quaternary 
d. Triassic 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
71. The disappearance of the dinosaurs also marks the end of whichgeological era?
a. Precambrian 
b. Cambrian 
c. Mesozoic (pron: mez-ah-zo-ik) 
d. Cenozoic (pron: see-nah-zo-ik) 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
72. On a topographic map, lines that indicate water depth are termed:
a. isogonic lines (pron: eye-seh-gone-ik) 
b. bathymetric lines (pron: bath-i-meh-trik) 
c. isopachs 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
73. In geological studies, a fault in the earth's surface in which thehanging wall has moved UP relative to the footwall is termed:
a. overthrust fault 
b. reverse fault 
c. tear fault 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
74. In geological studies, a fault in the earth's surface along whichprimarily horizontal movement has taken place is termed:
a. overthrust fault 
b. strike-slip fault 
c. reverse fault 
d. none of the above 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
75. In studies of the surface of the earth, a reverse fault having a dipbetween 10 and 45 degrees is known as a:
a. thrust fault 
b. normal fault 
c. strike-slip fault 
d. neither of these 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
76. You are adrift off the coast of Miami, Florida in the Gulf Stream.Where would you most likely land?
a. Argentina 
b. Louisiana 
c. New York 
d. The British Isles 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
77. The horse latitude which occurs at approximately 30o - 35o north isalso known as the:
a. doldrums 
b. calms of Cancer 
c. calms of Capricorn 
d. trough of the Pacific 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
78. A circular cavity ground out of bedrock by running water is called a:
a. cave 
b. pothole 
c. sinkhole 
d. kettle hole 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
79. A yazoo stream flows through which of the following?
a. gorge 
b. divide 
c. backswamp 
d. water gap 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
80. Which of the following is a famous hanging trough waterfall?
a. Yellowstone Falls 
b. Yosemite Falls 
c. Niagara Falls 
d. Victoria Falls 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
81. A wave with a wavelength of 40 meters and a height of 2 meters willNOT be refracted in water with a depth of more than:
a. 1 meter 
b. 2 meters 
c. 10 meters 
d. 20 meters 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
82. The lag time between precipitation period and peak discharge periodof a river:
a. is increased by urbanization 
b. is decreased by urbanization 
c. is shorter for a large drainage basin than for a small one 
d. depends upon the hydraulic heads 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
83. What percentage of the earth's water is fresh water?
a. 50% 
b. 22% 
c. 7% 
d. 3% 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
84. The deep, least productive part of a lake is calle the:
a. littoral zone 
b. profundal zone 
c. photic zone 
d. limnetic zone 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
85. Which of the following does NOT affect sea level change?
a. Antarctic ice sheet 
b. small glaciers and ice caps 
c. Arctic sea ice 
d. Greenland ice sheet 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
86. If all the Earth's ice melted, the increase in sea level would beapproximately:
a. 100 meters 
b. 2 meters 
c. 70 meters 
d. 20 meters 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
87. The curved body of water formed when a meandering river reshapesand cuts off one of its bends is called:
a. an Essing pond 
b. an Oxbow lake 
c. a Swensen pool 
d. a Groovy pool 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
88. The chemical union of iron, oxygen and water forms
a. magnetite 
b. hematite 
c. limonite 
d. pyrite 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
89. Give the term that describes different crystalline modifications of thesame chemical substance. Is it:
a. polymorphism 
b. isomorphism 
c. tetrahedral 
d. perovskite 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
90. Of the energy used in the United States, about wha percent isprovided by hydroelectric power?
a. 4% 
b. 20% 
c. 50% 
d. 75% 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
91. The B-horizon of a pedalfer soil is noted for its accumulation of:
a. carbonate 
b. nitrogen 
c. humus 
d. oxides 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
92. Pedocal (pron: ped-eh-kal) soils are usually found to have developedin:
a. forests 
b. swamps 
c. grasslands 
d. jungles 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
93. High quality crop soil requires humus as a major component. Whichof the following best describes the composition of humus
a. fine sand particles 
b. decaying organic matter 
c. mineral like clay matter 
d. chemical fertilizers 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
94. The aquifer of a famous artesian formation in the Great Plains is alayer of rock called the:
a. Clinton limestone 
b. Dakota sandstone 
c. Pierre shale 
d. Vermont marble 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
95. The principal aquifer of the artesian wells of Florida is a:
a. porous sandstone 
b. fissured limestone 
c. series of clay beds 
d. mass of pumice 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
96. The saltation of sand grains refers to the sand grains:
a. being coated with salt 
b. moving in jumps and bounces 
c. moving in a steady stream 
d. being cemented together 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
97. The surface of a "desert pavement" is composed mainly of which ofthe following?
a. loose sand 
b. sand and clay 
c. pebbles and boulders 
d. concrete and cement 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
98. Which of the following are barchans?
a. deflation basins 
b. oases 
c. crescent-shaped dunes 
d. sand storms 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
99. Which of the following does NOT form as a result o a low leveltemperature inversion?
a. smog 
b. sleet 
c. tornado 
d. fog 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
100. A type of lava characterized by a blocky appearanc is termed:
a. Pillow Lava 
b. Aa 
c. Vessicular 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
101. A type of volcano composed of mainly pyroclastics is termed:
a. cinder cone 
b. shield cone 
c. composite cone 
d. none of these 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
102. An example of a typical shield volcano is:
a. Washington's Mount Rainier 
b. Hawaii's Mauna Loa 
c. Ecuador's Mount Cotopaxi 
d. Japan's Mount Fuji 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
103. Molten rock beneath the Earth's crust is called:
a. magma 
b. liquicite 
c. lava 
d. igneous 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
104. The jet-stream lies between which two layers of th earth'satmosphere?
a. thermosphere and ionosphere 
b. mesosphere and thermosphere 
c. troposphere and stratosphere 
d. stratosphere and mesosphere 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
105. The degree of aridness of a geographic region is generally defined asthe ratio of precipitation to:
a. condensation 
b. evaporation 
c. transpiration 
d. snowpack depth 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
106. In the nebular hypothesis, each planet is formed from which of thefollowing?
a. a comet 
b. a number of moons 
c. a passing star 
d. a ring of gas 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
107. There are three commonly detectable points of zero polarization ofdiffuse sky radiation, neutral points, lying along the vertical circle through the sun. Which of thefollowing is NOT one of these points? Is it the:
a. Arago Point 
b. Babinet Point 
c. Brewster Point 
d. Longfellow Point 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
108. An igneous rock which is commonly black, has a glassy texture, andhas a conchoidal (pron: kong-koid-al) fracture is whic of the following?
a. pelite (pron: pel-ite) 
b. calcite 
c. obsidian 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
109. In geological studies, a breccia contains particle that have which ofthe following shapes?
a. rounded 
b. angular 
c. square 
d. spheroidal 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
110. Which of the following is the most important chemically-active fluidinvolved in the formation of rocks?
a. hydrochloric acid 
b. sulfuric acid 
c. water 
d. methane 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
111. Diamond and graphite are polymorphs of which of th followingelements?
a. magnesium 
b. carbon 
c. sulfur 
d. nitrogen 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
112. The streak of a mineral can be obtained most easil by performingwhich of the following tests?
a. rubbing the mineral on an unglazed white tile 
b. putting the mineral into acid 
c. scratching the mineral with a diamond 
d. examining the mineral under a microscope 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
113. Which of the following pairs of minerals are difficult to tell apartbecause both are always dark in color and almost equally hard?
a. muscovite and orthoclase 
b. muscovite and quartz 
c. hornblende and talc 
d. hornblende and augite 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
114. A specialized form of concordant igneous intrusion that ischaracterized by a dome in the country rock and a nearly planar floor is called a:
a. lopolith 
b. laccolith 
c. batholith 
d. stock 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
115. The most common mineral found in igneous rock is:
a. feldspar 
b. olivine 
c. muscovite 
d. fluorite 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
116. The metamorphic rock which forms from pure limestone is:
a. slate 
b. gneiss 
c. schist 
d. marble 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
117. Which coal is considered a metamorphic rock?
a. anthracite coal 
b. bituminous coal 
c. lignite coal 
d. all of these 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
118. The earth's average density is:
a. 2.82 grams per cubic centimeter 
b. 4.75 grams per cubic centimeter 
c. 5.52 grams per cubic centimeter 
d. 10.5 grams per cubic centimeter 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
119. The continental shelves comprise what percentage o the Earth's totalland area?
a. 38 percent 
b. 28 percent 
c. 18 percent 
d. 8 percent 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
120. Continental shelves range in width from:
a. 1,500 to 5,000 kilometers 
b. 1,500 to 3,000 kilometers 
c. 0 to 5,000 kilometers 
d. 0 to 1,500 kilometers 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
121. The transport of energy or matter across the parallels of latitude in anorth-south direction or the reverse is called:
a. global transport 
b. air transport 
c. meridional transport 
d. polar transport 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
122. Orthoclase is what number on Moh's hardness scale?
a. 4 
b. 5 
c. 6 
d. 7 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
123. Which of the following is the chemical formula for calcite?
a. CaCO3 
b. CaMgSO4 
c. FeCO3 
d. FeS2 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
124. The nickname, "Fool's Gold," refers to which of th following?
a. calcite 
b. apatite 
c. fluorite 
d. pyrite 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
125. Which of the following is the only element which i "mined" from thesea? Is it:
a. copper 
b. magnesium 
c. uranium 
d. zinc 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
126. Which physical phenomenon or principle is most often applied in thesearch for petroleum reservoirs?
a. magnetic field distortions 
b. electromagnetic radiation 
c. natural radioactive decay of minerals 
d. acoustic wave transmission and reflection 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
127. Which of the following names is given to the supercontinent thoughtto have existed in the Cambrian period? Is it:
a. Pangaea 
b. Afrasia 
c. Gondwanaland 
d. Europia 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
128. Which of the following is the oldest period of tim lasting from thebeginnings of the earth to approximately 570 million year ago?
a. Precambrian 
b. Pleistocene (pron: ply-sto-sin) 
c. Miocene (pron: my-o-sin) 
d. Jurassic 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
129. Which of the following time periods includes part of the geologicrange of dinosaurs?
a. Mississippian 
b. Devonian 
c. Jurassic 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
130. On the Phanerozoic time scale, which of the following geologicperiods occurred approximately 65 to 136 million years ago? Is it:
a. Cambrian 
b. Ordovician 
c. Carboniferous 
d. Cretaceous 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
131. The emergence of land plants is generally accepted as occurringduring what period on the geologic time scale:
a. Cretaceous 
b. Triassic 
c. Permian 
d. Silurian 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
132. Angiosperms developed during the:
a. Precambrian period 
b. Cenozoic era 
c. Paleozoic era 
d. Mesozoic era 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
133. On a topographic map, lines that connect points of the sameelevation are termed:
a. benchmarks 
b. bathymetric lines 
c. contour lines 
d. isobars 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
134. Of the following, the color blue on a topographic map indicates whatsurface feature?
a. vegetation 
b. water 
c. photorevision 
d. rock formations 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
135. Of the following choices, the color purple on a topographic mapindicates what surface feature?
a. vegetation 
b. water 
c. photorevision 
d. rock formations 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
136. Which of the following names is used to describe the zero degreelongitudinal line that runs through Greenwich, England?
a. Great Circle 
b. Principle Line 
c. Longitudinal Maximum 
d. Prime Meridian 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
137. Another method of locating points on a map besides the longitudeand latitude method which is frequently employed in the western states is known as the:
a. Arc Method 
b. Tier and Range System 
c. Square Similar Method 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
138. A point of known or assumed elevation on a topographic map istermed
a. benchmark 
b. contour line 
c. bathymetric point 
d. none of these 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
139. Which of the following terms is used to describe the angulardifference between TRUE north and magnetic north on a topographic map? Is it:
a. Magnetic field 
b. Magnetic intensity 
c. Magnetic inclination 
d. Magnetic declination 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
140. In geological studies, a fracture in the earth's surface along whichmovement has taken place is termed:
a. tension fracture 
b. gash fracture 
c. fault 
d. none of these 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
141. In geological studies, a fault in the earth's surface in which thehanging wall has moved down relative to the footwall is termed:
a. normal fault 
b. reverse fault 
c. upthrust fault 
d. none of these 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
142. In geological studies, a reverse fault having a di less than 10 degreesis known as which of the following types of faults.
a. normal 
b. overthrust 
c. strike-slip 
d. none of the above. 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
143. The San Andreas fault in California is a classic example of which ofthe following types of faults?
a. tear fault 
b. upthrust fault 
c. dip-slip fault 
d. strike-slip fault 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
144. Of the following states, the principal bituminous coal producing statein the United States is:
a. Tennessee 
b. Illinois 
c. Pennsylvania 
d. West Virginia 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
145. Continents have three major features. The oldest areas of eachcontinent are the:
a. folded mountains 
b. stable platforms 
c. mountain cores 
d. shields 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
146. Cordaites (pron: kor-day-i-tees) were the ancestor of one of thefollowing. Were they primitive:
a. amphibians 
b. cone-bearing trees 
c. snakes 
d. sharks 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
147. The fossils found in the tar pits of Rancho La Bre in Los Angelesincluded all of the following EXCEPT one. Which one was absent?
a. saber-toothed cat 
b. dire wolf 
c. wooly mammoth 
d. giant ground sloth 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
148. The fossil archaeopteryx is the earliest known example of:
a. mammal 
b. fish 
c. bird 
d. snake 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
149. Large streams that enter a standing body of water produce which ofthe following geological features at their mouths?
a. deltas 
b. load casts 
c. anticlines 
d. sync (pron: sink) 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
150. The Cromwell Current is a subsurface current that flows how? Doesit flow:
a. west in the Atlantic Ocean 
b. east in the Atlantic Ocean 
c. east in the Pacific Ocean 
d. west in the Pacific Ocean 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
151. Crinoids are the same as one of the following. Which one is it? Is it
a. algae 
b. sea scorpions 
c. sea lilies 
d. lobe-finned fishes 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
152. Which one of the following seas has the lowest salinity?
a. Baltic 
b. Dead 
c. Mediterranean 
d. Red 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
153. In an ocean, the upper layer of water with sufficient light penetrationto support photosynthesis by aquatic plants i known as the:
a. free zone 
b. plant zone 
c. photic zone 
d. primary zone 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
154. Caves are frequently associated with a certain kin of topography thatincludes sinkholes, disappearing streams and many limestone outcrops. With which of thefollowing topographies are such features related?
a. arid topography 
b. valley and ridge topography 
c. Karst topography 
d. none of these 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
155. Most cave deposits form from which of the followin minerals?
a. hematite 
b. calcite 
c. quartz 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
156. A pair of rivers that mark the approximate southern limit of the IceAge glaciers in North America are the Missouri and which of the following?
a. St. Lawrence 
b. Ohio 
c. Delaware 
d. Tennessee 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
157. Which of the following number of years best approximates the lengthof time since the last ice age in the United States?
a. 1,000,000 
b. 1,000 
c. 11,000 
d. 250,000 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
158. The Hawaiian Islands are what type of volcano?
a. shield 
b. composite 
c. cinder cone 
d. none of the above
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
159. The internal structure of crystals was first studied with which of thefollowing?
a. x-rays 
b. isotopes 
c. electron microscopes 
d. lasers 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
160. In geological studies, cemented volcanic ash is called:
a. caldera 
b. a-a 
c. lava 
d. tuff 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
161. All of the following are TRUE of the Paricutin volcano except
a. its slopes are steep 
b. it is a lava cone 
c. it is located in Mexico 
d. it was built over a short period of time 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
162. Iceland is least likely to have
a. a fissure eruption 
b. a lava plateau 
c. an explosive eruption 
d. a shield volcano 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
163. The principal volcanic gas (in terms of quantity) is:
a. carbon dioxide 
b. nitrogen dioxide 
c. sulfur dioxide 
d. steam (H2O) 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
164. Which of the following elements is found in the earth's crust as botha native element and as a compound?
a. argon 
b. copper 
c. chlorine 
d. silicon 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
165. According to the protoplanet hypothesis, the solar system begins aswhich of the following?
a. a star 
b. a vacuum 
c. a huge cloud of dust and gas 
d. a group of comets. 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
166. On which one of the following is the largest known volcanic cone inthe solar system located?
a. Earth 
b. Io 
c. Mars 
d. the moon 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
167. What type of rocks are formed as a result of volcanic activity?
a. metamorphic 
b. sedimentary 
c. igneous 
d. Hudson 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
168. In which of the following mountain ranges are volcanic rocks leastcommon?
a. Andes 
b. Cascades 
c. Himalayas 
d. Sierra Nevadas 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
169. Which of the following mountain ranges were formed as a result ofvolcanic action?
a. Appalachians 
b. Teton Range 
c. Front Range 
d. Cascade Range 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
170. Which of the following is the most important erosional andtransportation agent?
a. wind 
b. water 
c. glaciers 
d. none of the above 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
171. Winds are classed as agents of erosion rather than of weatheringbecause:
a. they have nothing to do with the weather 
b. they carry rock particles away 
c. they work only part of the time 
d. they build up rather than wear down the rock 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
172. Carbonic acid is extremely active in the chemical weathering of:
a. feldspar 
b. quartz 
c. carbon 
d. quartzite 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
173. Of the following minerals, the one most resistant to both chemicaland mechanical weathering is:
a. calcite 
b. muscovite 
c. hornblende 
d. quartz 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
174. When shale weathers, it forms mostly:
a. clay 
b. quartz 
c. soluble carbonates 
d. slate 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
175. Waste gases from industrial plants form acids that hasten chemicalweathering. Most of the gases are compounds of:
a. argon 
b. hydrogen 
c. iron 
d. sulfur 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
176. Which one of the following is an example of chemical weathering?
a. the splitting of a boulder 
b. the grinding of pebbles into sand 
c. the cleavage of a feldspar crystal 
d. the rusting of hornblende 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
177. The oxygen in the earth's atmosphere was probably produced bywhich of the following?
a. volcanos 
b. photosynthetic organisms 
c. radioactive minerals 
d. meteors 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
178. How much of the sun's total radiation actually reaches the earth? Is itone part in
a. 2,000 
b. 200,000 
c. 2 million 
d. 2 billion 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
179. To what does the atmosphere's "greenhouse effect" refer to?
a. the fact that ozone reflects ultraviolet radiation 
b. the fact that air prevents heat from leaving the earth 
c. the fact that clouds prevent sunlight from reaching the earth 
d. the fact that green plants use sunlight to produce food 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
180. What name is given to the science which studies the atmosphere?
a. oceanography 
b. atmospherology 
c. meteorology 
d. weatherology 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
181. The available incoming solar radiation is known as:
a. reflection 
b. insolation 
c. reradiation 
d. absorption 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
182. You are flying between Chicago and San Francisco on a commercialjet. The pilot comes on the public address system and announces that the plane's cruising altitudeis 40,000 feet. At this altitude are you in the:
a. troposphere 
b. stratosphere 
c. ozonosphere 
d. chemosphere 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
183. Which region of the electro-magnetic spectrum will cause sunburns?
a. ultraviolet 
b. infrared 
c. visible 
d. none of the above
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
184. Which of the following processes doesn't account for an increase inatmospheric CO2 (carbon dioxide) levels?
a. deforestation 
b. photosynthetic processes 
c. plant respiration 
d. fossil fuel combustion 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
185. Global climate change is being attributed to the atmospheric increasein what two gases produced by human activities?
a. ozone and methane 
b. nitrous oxide and sulfur dioxide 
c. methane and carbon dioxide 
d. ozone and carbon monoxide 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
186. According to the French scientist Buffon, the solar system formedwhen our sun
a. was first formed 
b. collided with a comet 
c. began to cool down 
d. began to expand. 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
187. Which element in chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) is responsible fordestroying the Earth's ozone layer?
a. oxygen 
b. fluorine 
c. chlorine 
d. bromine 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
188. The Coriolis effect is responsible for which atmosphericphenomenon?
a. trade winds 
b. the jet stream 
c. monsoons 
d. hurricanes 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
189. hich of the following reasons explains why quartz cannot beidentified by its color alone?
a. Its color is too faint. 
b. It has no color. 
c. It exists in a variety of colors. 
d. Its color fades. 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
190. Which of the following causes the oblate spheroid shape of theearth?
a. the earth's magnetism 
b. the earth's gravity 
c. the earth's rotation 
d. the moon's tidal pull 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
191. Which of these events gives us evidence that the earth is spherical?
a. a volcanic eruption 
b. an earthquake 
c. an eclipse of the moon 
d. the earth's rotation 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
192. Which one of these is NOT true?
a. All planets revolve in the same direction. 
b. All planets rotate in the same direction. 
c. The orbits of the planets are all ellipses. 
d. The orbits of the planets are nearly in the same plane. 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
193. An area that is not in a major earthquake belt is the region of the
a. Andes mountains 
b. Coast Ranges of Central America 
c. Appalachian Mountains 
d. the islands of Japan 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
194. A city that suffered a major earthquake, but is not on a plateboundary, is
a. Los Angeles, California 
b. San Francisco, California 
c. Tokyo, Japan 
d. Charleston, South Carolina 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
195. Which of the following is TRUE of an earthquake's epicenter andfocus?
a. they are the same 
b. the focus is above the epicenter 
c. the epicenter is at the earth's surface 
d. the focus is at the earth's inner core 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
196. Most earthquakes originate at depths of between
a. the surface and 100 kilometers 
b. 100 kilometers and 500 kilometers 
c. 500 kilometers and 700 kilometers 
d. 700 kilometers and the outer core 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
197. The most powerful earthquake ever recorded in North America hada Richter scale magnitude closest to
a. 6.5 
b. 7.5 
c. 8.5 
d. 9.5 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
198. Waves generated by underwater earthquakes are called:
a. tsunamis (pronounced su-nam-ees) 
b. a bore 
c. a tidal wave 
d. neap tidal wave 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
199. What is the chemical formula for quartz?
a. CaCO-3 
b. SiO-2 
c. Fe-2O-3 
d. none of these 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
200. Rocks formed in layers are said to be:
a. crystalline 
b. stratified 
c. chemical 
d. metamorphosed 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
201. Coal is believed to have been principally formed in which of thefollowing types of environment?
a. river beds 
b. swamps 
c. volcanic regions 
d. deserts 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
202. A rock composed of cemented sand and gravel is:
a. shale 
b. conglomerate 
c. granite 
d. marble 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
203. When clay hardens into rock, it forms:
a. coal 
b. limestone 
c. shale 
d. quartzite 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
204. Our sun is a
a. protostar 
b. main-sequence star 
c. variable star 
d. dwarf star 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
205. Which geologic period does not belong in the Mesozoic era?
a. Permian 
b. Cretaceous 
c. Triassic 
d. Jurassic 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
206. What type of map projection is most appropriate for navigationcharts?
a. Conic 
b. Mercator 
c. Polar 
d. Cartesian 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
207. What is the range of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge?
a. from Cuba to the Azores 
b. from Iceland to Antarctica 
c. from Cape Hatteras to Gibraltar 
d. from Cape Horn to the Cape of Good Hope 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
208. Fossils are rarely found in such rocks as:
a. limestone 
b. sandstone 
c. shale 
d. granite 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
209. As we have seen with Hurricane Andrew, natural forces can causegreat loss of human life. Which of the following natural disasters has resulted in the greatest lossof human life in a single occurrence?
a. typhoon 
b. volcanic eruption 
c. earthquake 
d. tornado 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
210. The rock in which ground water is LEAST likely to form caverns is:
a. sandstone 
b. limestone 
c. salt 
d. rock gypsum 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
211. The longest era was the
a. Mesozoic 
b. Precambrian 
c. Cenozoic 
d. Paleozoic 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
212. On the Richter scale, a magnitude 6 earthquake is how much largerthan a magnitude 4 earthquake?
a. 1.5 times 
b. 4 times 
c. 15 times 
d. 100 times 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
213. The air around a high pressure area circulates:
a. clockwise in the Northern Hemisphere 
b. counterclockwise in the Northern Hemisphere 
c. clockwise in the Southern Hemisphere 
d. in either direction regardless of hemisphere 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
214. The principal mineral in most sand beaches is
a. quartz 
b. orthoclase 
c. magnetite 
d. muscovite 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
215. The oldest rocks that contain abundant fossils are:
a. Precambrian 
b. Paleozoic 
c. Mesozoic 
d. Cenozoic 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
216. The wind-chill index outside is -10 F when the wind blows at 20 mphand the air temperature is 20 F. To what temperature will a dry object cool when placed outside?
a. 20 F 
b. 10 F 
c. -10 F 
d. -20 F 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
217. A geologic feature called a kimberlite indicates the possibility ofthepresence of which of the following?
a. rubies 
b. diamonds 
c. sapphires 
d. opals 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
218. Which of the following minerals is a source of lead?
a. Bauxite 
b. Hematite 
c. Malachite 
d. Galena 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
219. Which of the following is the mineral name for ordinary salt?
a. biotite 
b. calcite 
c. halite 
d. dolomite 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
220. The core of the earth is thought to be composed of which of thefollowing?
a. basalt and granite 
b. compressed gases 
c. uranium and lead 
d. iron and nickel 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
221. Safety aside, for which of the following reasons is alcohol used inpreference to mercury in a minimum thermometer?
a. Alcohol has a higher boiling point 
b. Alcohol has a lower freezing point 
c. Alcohol contracts more uniformly 
d. Alcohol can be dyed for visibility 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
222. Which of the following distances in kilometers is closest to thediameter of the earth?
a. 750 kilometers 
b. 2,750 kilometers 
c. 12,750 kilometers 
d. 127,500 kilometers 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
223. Which of the following is the approximate ratio of the area of thecontinents to the area of the earth's oceans?
a. 2:1 
b. 1:1 
c. 2:5 
d. 1:10 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
224. In geological studies, the Mohorovicic Discontinuity, commonlycalled the Moho, is the boundary between the
a. the mantle and the crust 
b. asthenosphere and the mantle 
c. mantle and the outer core 
d. outer core and the inner core 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
225. Biomass energy is
a. formed through photosynthesis 
b. caused by heat due to the large mass of the Earth 
c. has been used for only a few years 
d. the predominant source of commercial heat energy in the northern regions of the 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
226. Which animal is the center of the timber-harvest controversy in thePacific Northwest?
a. blackfooted ferret 
b. California condor 
c. northern spotted owl 
d. gray wolf 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
227. North American Indians used this mineral of volcanic origin to maketips for arrows:
a. obsidian 
b. quartz 
c. flint 
d. pumice 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
228. The largest single component, by weight, in the average Americanlandfill is:
a. toxic waste 
b. diapers 
c. newspapers 
d. pizza boxes 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
229. Carbon dioxide is an important greenhouse gas. What is the currentrate in parts per million per year of atmospheric increase of this gas?
a. 0.15 ppm per year (parts per million) 
b. 1.5 ppm per year 
c. 15 ppm per year 
d. 150 ppm per year 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
230. When the front of a glacier is stationary for a long time, the glacierwill do which of the following?
a. form many crevasses 
b. melt away 
c. not erode its bed 
d. build a large terminal moraine 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
231. Valleys formed by glaciers always have which of the followingcharacteristics?
a. U-shaped cross sections 
b. straight courses 
c. uniform slopes 
d. bedrock floors 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
232. The approximate average yearly rainfall in centimeters for the UnitedStates is:
a. 25 centimeters 
b. 50 centimeters 
c. 75 centimeters 
d. 100 centimeters 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
233. When does the air cool most rapidly? Is it during
a. a cloudy day 
b. a cloudy night 
c. a sunny day 
d. a clear night 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
234. What form of runoff is water that flows down a slope within theupper layers of the soil rather than on top of them?
a. interflow 
b. extraflow 
c. endoflow 
d. detrital runoff 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
235. What is considered to be the approximate difference in averagetemperature between the "little ice age" and today?
a. 1 to 3 degrees centigrade 
b. 5 to 8 degrees centigrade 
c. 10 to 12 degrees centigrade 
d. 15 to 20 degrees centigrade 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
236. On which of the following does the capacity of a kilogram of air forholding water depend?
a. the air pressure 
b. the air temperature 
c. the dust content of the air 
d. the ions in the air 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
237. When the difference in the temperature of the wet-bulb thermometerand dry-bulb thermometer is large, what does it indicate about the air?
a. it is very dry 
b. it is nearly saturated 
c. it is very warm 
d. it is very cold 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
238. Which of the following is an average number of inches of snow equato one inch of rain?
a. 1 inch 
b. 5 inches 
c. 10 inches 
d. 25 inches 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
239. Cloud droplets unite most easily to form raindrops in cloudscontaining which of the following substances?
a. ozone 
b. plant pollen 
c. carbon tetrachloride 
d. large salt crystals 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
240. Sulfuric acid aerosols from the eruption of Mt. Pinatubo reduced therate of global warming last year. They also contributed to the record size of:
a. acid rainfalls in Europe 
b. the anchovy catch off Peru 
c. the ozone hole over Antarctica 
d. fish kills in the Amazon River 
ANS: C
TOP: ERSC
241. Which of the following mountain ranges was formed during theMesozoic era?
a. Rocky Mountains 
b. Cascades 
c. Appalachian 
d. Sierra Nevada 
ANS: D
TOP: ERSC
242. What mineral is the most dense?
a. hematite 
b. cinnabar 
c. marcasite 
d. rhodochrosite 
ANS: B
TOP: ERSC
243. Pangaea is the name of a former continent that included:
a. all the continents 
b. only Europe and Asia 
c. only South America and Africa 
d. only North and South America 
ANS: A
TOP: ERSC
