Science Bowl General_science

Multiple Choice

1. Pollination by birds is called:
a. autogamy 
b. ornithophily (pron: or-nith-o-philly) 
c. entomophily (pron: ent-eh-mof-illy) 
d. anemophily (pron: an-eh-mof-illy) 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
2. What percent of fire-related deaths are due to smoke inhalationrather than burns?
a. 10% 
b. 50% 
c. 80% 
d. 99% 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
3. The fastest-running terrestrial animal is:
a. cheetah 
b. lion 
c. man 
d. jaguar 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
4. As you go down into a well, your weight:
a. increases slightly 
b. decreases slightly 
c. remains exactly the same 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
5. Bees must collect nectar from approximately how many flowers tomake 1 pound of honeycomb? Is it:
a. 10 thousand 
b. 2 million 
c. 20 million 
d. 50 million 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
6. Albacore is a type of:
a. shell-fish 
b. tuna 
c. marble 
d. meteoroid 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
7. The only species of cat that lives and hunts in groups is:
a. lion 
b. leopard 
c. jaguar 
d. cougar 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
8. Which prefix is often used with scientific terms to indicate thatsomething is the same, equal or constant?
a. iso (pron: eye-so) 
b. mega 
c. meta 
d. quasi 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
9. The study of phenomena at very low temperatures is called:
a. heat transfer 
b. morphology 
c. crystallography 
d. cryogenics (pron: cry-o-jen-iks) 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
10. The branch of medical science which is concerned with the study ofdisease as it affects a community of people is called:
a. epidemiology 
b. oncology 
c. paleontogy 
d. pathology 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
11. The study of how people use tools to perform work and how peoplephysically relate to their working environment is called:
a. engineering 
b. ergonomics 
c. agronomy 
d. physiology 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
12. What famous scientist and inventor participated in the invention ofthe Aqua-Lung?
a. Thomas Edison 
b. Isaac Newton 
c. Leonardo da Vinci 
d. Jacques Cousteau 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
13. Superconductivity is a material property associated with:
a. cooling a substance without a phase change 
b. frictionless liquid flow 
c. a loss of thermal resistance 
d. a loss of electrical resistance 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
14. A type of plastic that is biodegradable has been in the news lately.The ingredient that makes it biodegradable is:
a. vegetable oil 
b. petroleum 
c. cornstarch 
d. leather 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
15. Who was the marine biologist and author of Silent Spring who wasone of the first people to warn of the dangers of pesticides like DDT?
a. Jacques Cousteau 
b. Rachel Carson 
c. Charles Darwin 
d. Marlin Perkins 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
16. If a metal can be drawn into wires relatively easily it is called:
a. malleable 
b. ductile 
c. extractive 
d. tactile 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
17. In which country was a method for making rust-resistant irondiscovered in the fifth century B.C.?
a. Sumeria 
b. Egypt 
c. India 
d. Babylon 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
18. Cystitis is the infection of which of the following?
a. liver 
b. urinary bladder 
c. pancreas 
d. lung 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
19. At room temperature, most elements are in which phase of matter?
a. solid 
b. liquid 
c. gas 
d. plasma 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
20. The per capita birth rate of a population is known as its:
a. mortality 
b. natality (pron: nay-tal-eh-ty) 
c. population density 
d. carrying capacity 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
21. Who is called the Father of the Nuclear Navy?
a. Edward Teller 
b. Robert Oppenheimer 
c. Hymen Rickover 
d. Chester Nimitz 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
22. The science of weights and measures is called:
a. metrology 
b. meteorology 
c. mineralogy 
d. morphology 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
23. Which of the following is primarily composed of calcium carbonate?
a. Fish scales 
b. Shark teeth 
c. Oyster Shells 
d. Whale bones 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
24. Water flows through a horizontal pipe at a constant volumetric rate.At a location where the cross sectional area decreases, the velocity of the fluid:
a. increases 
b. decreases 
c. stays the same 
d. none of the above
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
25. What radioactive element is routinely used in treatinghyperthyroidism, and in reducing thyroid activity?
a. Iron-59 
b. Gold-198 
c. Cobalt-60 
d. Iodine-131 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
26. Yeast, used in making bread is a:
a. plant 
b. fungus 
c. bacteria 
d. seed 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
27. The Statue of Liberty is green because of:
a. green stone 
b. oxidized brass 
c. steel painted green 
d. oxidized copper 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
28. Which of the following vacuum pumps operates by using a very coldsurface to trap the gases on the cold surface? Is it a:
a. sublimation pump 
b. turbo pump 
c. cryopump 
d. diffusion pump. 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
29. The word atom is from a Greek word meaning:
a. small 
b. indivisible 
c. unseen 
d. visible 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
30. In 1991, critical habitat was designated for this well-known speciesin the states of Washington, Oregon and California.
a. brown bear 
b. northern spotted owl 
c. bald eagle 
d. snail darter 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
31. Which of the following are NOT native to North America?
a. Mountain Quail 
b. Ringneck Pheasant 
c. Sharptail Grouse 
d. Masked Bob-White 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
32. A cyclone is an engineering device that is used to
a. transport materials 
b. segregate particles 
c. control switching devices 
d. model fractals 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
33. In the United States, low sulfur coal can be found primarily in the:
a. northeast 
b. southeast 
c. midwest 
d. west 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
34. Electric power is less expensive at night because:
a. more hydroelectric generation is brought on line at night. 
b. there is less demand at night. 
c. pollution control is less stringent at night. 
d. power plants are more efficient at night. 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
35. Electricity generated by coal-fired power plants i the United Statesin 1990 was approximately what percentage of the entire electricity produced by all sources ofpower production?
a. 10 percent 
b. 25 percent 
c. 55 percent 
d. 90 percent 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
36. In a typical power plant used to generate electricity in the U.S., thepercentage of energy in the fuel that is converted to electricity is about:
a. 99 percent 
b. 50 percent 
c. 35 percent 
d. 10 percent 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
37. In a certain electronic circuit the output is positive if input 1 ispositive and input 2 is zero. If both inputs are positive the output is zero. This is:
a. an AND circuit 
b. a NOR circuit 
c. an OR circuit 
d. a high-pass filter 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
38. To reverse the direction of rotation of a three-phase AC inductionmotor, do one of the following:
a. reverse any two of the three-phase connections 
b. change the frequency of the applied AC power 
c. operate the motor below the stall torque at very high slip 
d. none of the above 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
39. What are the three elements of a bipolar transistor? Are they the:
a. grid, plate, cathode 
b. suppressor, deflector, target 
c. energizer, controller, terminus 
d. emitter, base, collector 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
40. Seawater (i.e. saltwater) freezes at:
a. the same temperature as fresh water. 
b. at a slightly higher temperature than fresh water. 
c. at a slightly lower temperature than fresh water. 
d. seawater does not freeze. 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
41. Nitrous oxide, commonly called laughing gas, has been a matter ofconcern to environmentalists recently because:
a. it is thought to cause cancer at low concentrations. 
b. it produces photochemical smog. 
c. it is a greenhouse gas. 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
42. Ozone in the upper atmosphere is produced from:
a. lightning 
b. photochemical reactions 
c. electrical appliances on Earth 
d. model fractals 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
43. Pollination by wind is called:
a. autogamy 
b. entomophily 
c. anemophily 
d. ornithophily 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
44. Glaucoma is treated by which of the following:
a. androgenic drug 
b. androgenic blocking drug 
c. cholinergic drug 
d. anticholinergic drug 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
45. Atolls are most probably formed by:
a. a rise in the earth's crust 
b. sand brought in from the mainland 
c. collapse of the center of a volcano 
d. coral reef upbuilding during subsidence 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
46. Name the English naturalist who, while credited with being thecodeveloper of the theory of evolution by natural selection, is much less famous for this than hiscodeveloper.
a. Erasmus Darwin 
b. Robert Ludlow 
c. Alfred Russel Wallace 
d. Rudolf Virchow 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
47. The U.S. population receives the largest dose of ionizing radiationfrom:
a. natural sources. 
b. fallout from nuclear weapons testing. 
c. nuclear medicine. 
d. nuclear power plants. 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
48. The radioactive element most commonly detected in humans is:
a. potassium-40 
b. cobalt-60 
c. iodine-131 
d. plutonium-238 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
49. The largest breeder reactor built to date is located where?
a. USSR 
b. Japan 
c. France 
d. United States 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
50. Radioisotopes which are used in medical diagnosis are known aswhat?
a. tracers 
b. silver bullets 
c. markers 
d. dyes 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
51. Most commercial nuclear power plants worldwide are cooled by:
a. sodium 
b. mercury 
c. helium 
d. water 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
52. As of August 1991, how many DIFFERENT women have wonNobel Prizes in the scientific fields of physics, chemistry, and physiology or medicine? Is it:
a. 2 
b. 5 
c. 9 
d. 12 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
53. The earliest experiments on chromosome theory and inheritancewere developed by?
a. Gregor Mendel 
b. Jonas Salk 
c. Charles Sternak 
d. Robert Oppenheimer 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
54. This black engineer was granted a patent in 1872 for the firstautomatic oil lubricator. The lubricating cup regulated the flow of oil onto moving parts ofmachines, revolutionizing the machine industry. Was this well-known inventor:
a. Elijah McCoy 
b. Lewis Latimer 
c. Leonard McFall 
d. Branville Woods 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
55. The uranium fuel used worldwide is mainly in the form of:
a. U3O8 
b. UO2 
c. UF6 
d. U metal 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
56. Spent fuel from a nuclear power plant cools down and loses most ofits radioactivity through decay. In the first year, spent fuel loses about what percentage of itsradioactivity?
a. 10 percent 
b. 50 percent 
c. 80 percent 
d. 100 percent 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
57. The National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurementsestimates that the average exposure to ionizing radiation tha individual Americans receiveannually from ALL sources is about:
a. 60 millirem 
b. 100 millirem 
c. 360 millirem 
d. 500 millirem 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
58. An important safety feature required at U.S. nuclear power plantsthat was not present at the Chernobyl Power Plant in the Soviet Union was the:
a. reactor 
b. cooling water 
c. control rods 
d. containment building 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
59. As of December, 1990, which of the following countries generatedthe greatest percentage of its electricity by nuclear power?
a. England 
b. Japan 
c. United States 
d. France 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
60. Most of the nuclear power plants operating in the United States are:
a. pressurized water reactors 
b. boiling water reactors 
c. high-temperature gas-cooled reactors 
d. liquid-metal fast breeder reactors 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
61. The Oklo reactor in Gabon, Africa, is significant because it:
a. was the first man-made reactor. 
b. was a natural fission reactor. 
c. was the first reactor used to generate electricity. 
d. produced the most electricity in a single year. 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
62. What substance was used as a moderator for the chain reaction inthe first nuclear reactor?
a. graphite 
b. boron 
c. water 
d. cadmium 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
63. The U.S. population receives the largest dose of ionizing radiationfrom:
a. natural sources. 
b. fallout from nuclear weapons testing. 
c. nuclear medicine. 
d. nuclear power plants. 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
64. What state in the United States has the most nuclear power plants?
a. New York 
b. Illinois 
c. Pennsylvania 
d. South Carolina 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
65. The launch of the first LIQUID fueled rocket in the world isattributed to:
a. China 
b. Russia 
c. United States 
d. Germany 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
66. The first American Astronaut to ORBIT the Earth was:
a. Alan Shepard 
b. John Glenn 
c. Gus Grissom 
d. Scott Carpenter 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
67. Which of the following materials is used along with iron ore andlimestone to produce iron in a modern blast furnace?
a. coke 
b. cementite 
c. coal 
d. bauxite 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
68. The study of poisons is called:
a. oncology 
b. toxicology 
c. phrenology 
d. ergonomics (pron: ur - go - no - mics) 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
69. What range of frequencies are usually referred to as audiofrequencies for humans?
a. 0 to 20 Hertz 
b. 20 to 20,000 Hertz 
c. 200 to 200,000 Hertz 
d. 10,000 to 30,000 Hertz 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
70. What range of frequencies are usually referred to as the UHF Band?
a. 3 to 30 Megahertz 
b. 30 to 300 Megahertz 
c. 300 to 3,000 Megahertz 
d. 30,000 to 300,000 Megahertz 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
71. A device used to measure the amount of moisture in the atmosphereis called a:
a. hydrometer (pron: high-dro-me-ter) 
b. hygrometer (pron: high-gro-me-ter) 
c. anemometer 
d. barometer 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
72. What power cycle is used in jet engines?
a. Stirling 
b. Rankine 
c. Otto 
d. Brayton 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
73. The half life of tritium is about:
a. 3,500 years 
b. 40 years 
c. 12.3 years 
d. 3.7 years 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
74. One of the potential health effects of exposure to high levels ofnoise is called tinnitus (pron: ti - NI - tes), which means:
a. a permanent loss of hearing. 
b. a persistent ringing or hissing in the ears after exposure. 
c. a temporary loss of hearing, especially of upper frequencies. 
d. abdominal discomfort from low frequency noise. 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
75. Plants get their nitrogen from:
a. rain 
b. the soil 
c. the air 
d. the bedrock 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
76. Which of the following elements was unknown to ancientcivilizations?
a. tin 
b. aluminum 
c. mercury 
d. sulfur 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
77. In the early 17th century, based on his observations with atelescope, Galileo Galilei attacked a belief espoused by the church. That belief was:
a. that the earth was flat. 
b. the sky was a large dome with holes through which heaven could be seen. 
c. that the earth was at the center of the universe. 
d. there are no other planets. 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
78. A barn is a unit of
a. length 
b. area 
c. volume 
d. weight 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
79. A light-year can be converted into
a. astronomical units 
b. hours 
c. foot-candles 
d. ergs 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
80. Which is the longest?
a. a kilometer 
b. a centimeter 
c. a dekameter 
d. a terameter 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
81. You use a hydrometer to check the condition of the electrolyte inyour car battery. It is actually measuring what property of the fluid?
a. charge 
b. density 
c. temperature 
d. surface tension 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
82. What is the major visible constituent of the exhaust plume from anatural gas-fired power plant?
a. carbon dioxide 
b. carbon monoxide 
c. smoke 
d. water 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
83. Of the following answers, which is closest to the percentage ofelectricitygenerated by nuclear power plants in the U.S. in 1987?
a. 5% 
b. 10% 
c. 20% 
d. 40% 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
84. High-temperature superconductors have been in the news lately.These materials become superconductive at temperatures around
a. 200 degrees Fahrenheit 
b. 100 degrees Fahrenheit 
c. -150 degrees Fahrenheit 
d. -350 degrees Fahrenheit 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
85. If a scuba diver suffers from the "bends", this means that which gasis being rapidly released from the blood and tissues?
a. oxygen 
b. hydrogen 
c. nitrogen 
d. CO2 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
86. The principle behind a breeder reactor is:
a. U-235 undergoes fission. 
b. U-238 is converted to Pu-239, which undergoes fission. 
c. Deuterium undergoes fission. 
d. Cobalt-60 undergoes fission. 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
87. Steel is composed of a number of elements. The two essentialelements are iron and
a. aluminum 
b. carbon 
c. nickel 
d. silicon 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
88. Which of the following is an important element of stainless steel.
a. chromium 
b. magnesium 
c. copper 
d. nickel 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
89. When petroleum is refined it is subject to a number of processesincluding cracking. During the cracking process
a. lighter hydrocarbons are combined to form heavier ones 
b. heavy hydrocarbons are broken up into lighter ones 
c. lighter hydrocarbons are separated by distillation 
d. oxygen is used to burn the heavier hydrocarbons 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
90. A psychrometer (pron: si-'kro-me-ter) is used to measure humidity.It consists of two thermometers, one of which is wetted. The water is allowed to evaporate.Which thermometer reads the higher temperature.
a. the wet one 
b. the dry one 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
91. One metal dissolved in another is called
a. an alloy 
b. an assay 
c. a mineral 
d. a ceramic 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
92. An alloy consisting mainly of tin and lead is called:
a. brass 
b. bronze 
c. pewter 
d. chrome 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
93. It is a common observation that naturally occurring processes have aparticular direction associated with them. For instance, heat flows from a hot body to a colderbody. The property of a system that is used to quantitatively describe this natural direction ofevents is called
a. energy 
b. entropy 
c. enthalpy 
d. equilibrium 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
94. Which of the following is believed to be responsible for the hole inthe ozone layer over Antarctic?
a. carbon dioxide 
b. compounds containing sulfur 
c. radioactivity 
d. compounds containing chlorine 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
95. Which of the following is not a major pollutant from automobiles.
a. carbon monoxide 
b. unburned hydrocarbons 
c. nitrous oxide 
d. sulfur dioxide 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
96. The most serious environmental pollution from a nuclear reactor is:
a. radioactivity 
b. particulate formation 
c. thermal pollution 
d. noise pollution 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
97. Biomass energy is:
a. formed through photosynthesis 
b. caused by heat due to the large mass of the earth 
c. has been used for only a few years 
d. is effective in only certain regions of the United States 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
98. A thermocouple is used to measure
a. pressure 
b. current 
c. strain 
d. temperature 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
99. The most suitable motor oil for use in a car in cold weather is:
a. a high viscosity oil 
b. a low viscosity oil 
c. a medium viscosity oil 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
100. The process by which a substance absorbs moisture upon exposureto the atmosphere is called:
a. efflorescence 
b. deliquescence 
c. dehydrogenation 
d. desalination 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
101. A temperature of 295 K is equivalent to approximately:
a. 0 degrees Fahrenheit 
b. 32 degrees Fahrenheit 
c. 72 degrees Fahrenheit 
d. 97 degrees Fahrenheit 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
102. Only one tree is known to live longer than the Giant Sequoia. Is thistree:
a. Bristlecone pine 
b. Grey Oak 
c. Japanese Chestnut 
d. Ponderosa pine 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
103. The first animal launched into orbit was a:
a. mouse 
b. monkey 
c. chimpanzee 
d. dog 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
104. How many time zones are there in the CONTIGUOUS UnitedStates?
a. 3 
b. 4 
c. 5 
d. 6 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
105. In the United States, coal is the energy source that produces thehighest percentage of our electricity. Second is:
a. hydropower 
b. oil 
c. nuclear energy 
d. solar energy 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
106. The first controlled nuclear chain reaction took place in what year?
a. 1895 
b. 1910 
c. 1942 
d. 1945 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
107. The radioactive element most commonly detected in humans is:
a. potassium-40 
b. cobalt-60 
c. iodine-131 
d. plutonium-238 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
108. "Fool's gold" is a common name for this mineral:
a. halite 
b. cinnabar 
c. magnetite 
d. pyrite 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
109. Which two gases are used to disinfect water in sewage treatmentfacilities?
a. helium and nitrogen 
b. ozone and chlorine 
c. oxygen and hydrogen 
d. nitrogen and chlorine 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
110. Which of the following building materials has the HIGHESTthermal conductivity?
a. Southern pine wood 
b. common brick 
c. aluminum 
d. gypsum board or drywall 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
111. Thermal insulation is used to:
a. stop the flow of heat. 
b. reduce the flow of heat. 
c. absorb heat. 
d. reverse the heat flow direction. 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
112. The region of the United States with the lowest pH values found inrainwater (acid rain) is:
a. Mid West 
b. North West 
c. North East 
d. South East 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
113. The specific gravity of mercury at Standard Temperature andPressure is:
a. 0.75 
b. 4.0 
c. 13.6 
d. 19.3 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
114. Consider efficiencies of hydro-turbines and generators. If theefficiency of a hydro-turbine is 80% and the efficiency of a generator is 90%, what is the overallefficiency of the unit?
a. 85% 
b. 72% 
c. 90% 
d. 70% 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
115. Recent discoveries of ancient cratering near the Yucatan Peninsulasupport the theory that a meteor or cometary impact may have resulted in mass extinctions ofspecies on Earth about 65 million years ago. During which geologic period is that impact thoughtto have occurred?
a. Permian 
b. Triassic 
c. Jurassic 
d. Cretaceous 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
116. In the United States the average number of gallons per person offresh water used per day for personal (non-industrial) use such as bathing, laundering, drinking,and the like is approximately:
a. 10 gallons 
b. 30 gallons 
c. 60 gallons 
d. 90 gallons 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
117. Taxol is a drug currently being used to treat cancer, particularlyresistant forms of breast cancer. A natural source of Taxol is:
a. bark and leaves of the yew tree 
b. apricot pits 
c. periwinkle flowers 
d. ginkgo leaves 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
118. About what percent of the electricity used in the United States iscurrently being produced by nuclear power plants?
a. 5 percent 
b. 10 percent 
c. 20 percent 
d. 30 percent 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
119. Some physicians suggest that women supplement their diets withantacids to supply additional amounts of a certain element thought to reduce the risk ofosteoporosis. The ingredient in antacids which provides this element is:
a. calcium carbonate 
b. aluminum hydroxide 
c. magnesium hydroxide 
d. simethicone 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
120. If you started with 100 grams of each of the materials below andthey all vaporized inside of an inflatable balloon, which of them would produce the largest volumeballoon, assuming they were all at the same temperature?
a. water 
b. gasoline 
c. ethanol 
d. butane 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
121. The estrogen and androgen hormones which regulate sexualdevelopment and function are structurally related to:
a. beta carotene 
b. ethanol 
c. adrenaline 
d. cholesterol 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
122. The most abundant organic molecule on the surface of the Earth is:
a. cellulose 
b. chitin 
c. DNA 
d. hemoglobin 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
123. The heat exhaust of an automobile with an internal combustionengine represents approximately what percent of the energy of the original fuel?
a. 10 % 
b. 50 % 
c. 35 % 
d. 5 % 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
124. In a precise diet and nutrition study, you need to determine theaverage weight and average height of a group each to a precision of 1%. The minimum samplesize required is
a. 10 
b. 100 
c. 1000 
d. 10,000 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
125. Liquid fuels can be used to generate electricity in a variety of ways.Which of the following technologies converts liquid fuel directly to electricity without acombustion step?
a. turbine 
b. battery 
c. fuel cell 
d. Stirling engine 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
126. A color television set employs a 25,000 volt electron accelerator toproduce the picture and potentially harmful radiation which must be shielded against. The maincomponent of this radiation consists of
a. electrons which penetrate the picture tube 
b. soft x-rays 
c. microwaves 
d. ultraviolet radiation 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
127. What is the approximate weight in pounds of the atmosphere on a1 sq. ft. surface at sea level?
a. 15 lbs. 
b. 1500 lbs. 
c. 2100 lbs. 
d. 20,000 lbs. 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
128. What form of radiation most closely resembles X-rays?
a. alpha 
b. beta 
c. gamma 
d. neutron 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
129. In the Tyndall Effect, the intensity of scattered radiation is inverselyproportional to the fourth power of the wavelength. Which one of the following colors of lightwould exhibit the most intense Tyndall scattering?
a. yellow 
b. green 
c. orange 
d. violet 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
130. One trillion is 1 followed by 12 zeros. What is 1 followed by18 zeros?
a. 1 quadrillion 
b. 1 quintillion 
c. 1 septillion 
d. 1 octillion 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
131. In daylight the human eye is most sensitive to which color?
a. Green 
b. Red 
c. Blue 
d. Orange 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
132. Which of the following people is credited as being the father of massproduction?
a. Thomas Edison 
b. Otto Graham 
c. Henry Ford 
d. Eli Whitney 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
133. A homeowner replaces a 65 watt incandescent bulb with a 15 wattcompact fluorescent lamp. The light is on 2000 hours a year. If electricity cost 10 cents akilowatt-hour, how much money is saved on the electric bill in one year?
a. $50.00 
b. $10.00 
c. $5.00 
d. $1.00 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
134. A radio station is broadcasting at 3750 khz (kilohertz). This stationwould be found in which radio band?
a. 20 meter 
b. 40 meter 
c. 80 meter 
d. 160 meter 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
135. Approximately what percentage of the electricity produced in theUnited States is consumed by residential appliances?
a. 20% 
b. 33% 
c. 50% 
d. 66% 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
136. Compared to terrestrial environments, aquatic environments aremore stable in:
a. temperature range 
b. producer consumer distribution 
c. sunlight absorbed 
d. number species 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
137. TCDD (2,3,6,7-tetrachlorodibenzo(p)dioxin) is a toxic syntheticchemical. The most consistent adverse effect observed in exposed humans is:
a. liver cancer 
b. birth defects 
c. disfiguring skin eruption 
d. an exaggerated sense of well-being 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
138. The U.S. EPA recently concluded that environmental tobacco smokeshould be considered (quote)
a. "a possible human teratogen" 
b. "a priority air pollutant" 
c. "a known human carcinogen" 
d. "a possible human carcinogen" 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
139. What power cycle is used in jet engines?
a. Stirling 
b. Rankine 
c. Otto 
d. Brayton 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
140. Which of the following is considered a renewable resource?
a. Coal fired power plant 
b. Hydroelectric dam 
c. Combustion turbine facility 
d. Nuclear fission power plant 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
141. What range of frequencies are usually referred to as the Ultra HighFrequency (UHF) Band?
a. 3 to 30 Mega Hertz 
b. 30 to 300 Mega Hertz 
c. 300 to 3,000 Mega Hertz 
d. 30,000 to 300,000 Mega Hertz 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
142. Who was the first scientist credited with pointing out that certaingases could cause a greenhouse effect?
a. John Tyndall 
b. Charles Darwin 
c. Roger Tory Peterson 
d. Stephen Jay Gould 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
143. Deforestation is not a major environmental problem in
a. the Amazon 
b. Borneo 
c. Oregon 
d. West Germany 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
144. The sun makes up approximately what percent of matter in our solarsystem?
a. 17% 
b. 50% 
c. 85% 
d. 99% 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
145. In 1991, the frozen body of a late stone age man was foundamazingly intact in the Alps near the Italian-Austrian border. Its age was determined to be about:
a. 2,200 years 
b. 5,300 years 
c. 12,800 years 
d. 30,000 years 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
146. Who is known as the Father of the Atomic Bomb?
a. Albert Einstein 
b. J. Robert Oppenheimer 
c. General Leslie Groves 
d. Edward Teller 
ANS: B
TOP: GENR
147. Dante is the name of an eight-legged robot designed to repel intothe crater of Erebus. This volcano is located in
a. Italy 
b. the Hawaiian chain 
c. Antarctica 
d. Japan 
ANS: C
TOP: GENR
148. For a DC motor, what major component in addition to the fieldwinding and the armature winding is necessary?
a. a commutator 
b. a stator 
c. a battery 
d. a rotor 
ANS: A
TOP: GENR
149. Evaporation from water surfaces exposed to air is not dependent ofthe:
a. velocity of the wind 
b. humidity 
c. temperature 
d. depth of the water 
ANS: D
TOP: GENR
