Science Bowl Physics

Multiple Choice

1. For the hydrogen atom, which series describes electron transitions tothe N=1 orbit, the lowest energy electron orbit? Is it the:
a. Lyman series 
b. Balmer series 
c. Paschen series 
d. Pfund series 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
2. Electric current may be expressed in which one of the followingunits?
a. coulombs/volt 
b. joules/coulomb 
c. coulombs/second 
d. ohms/second 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
3. A Newton is equal to which of the following?
a. kilogram-meter per second 
b. meter per second squared 
c. kilogram-meter per second squared 
d. kilogram per meter-second 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
4. For an object moving in uniform circular motion, the direction of theinstantaneous acceleration vector is:
a. tangent to the path of motion 
b. equal to zero 
c. directed radially outward 
d. directed radially inward 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
5. Work is equal to which of the following?
a. the cross product of force and displacement. 
b. the product of force times time 
c. force divided by time 
d. the dot product of force and displacement 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
6. The work done by a friction force is:
a. always positive 
b. always negative 
c. always zero 
d. either positive or negative depending upon the situation. 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
7. As defined in physics, work is:
a. a scalar quantity 
b. always a positive quantity 
c. a vector quantity 
d. always zero 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
8. A pendulum which is suspended from the ceiling of a railroad car isobserved to hang at an angle of 10 degrees to the right of vertical. Which of the followinganswers could explain this phenomena?
a. The railroad car is at rest. 
b. The railroad car is accelerating to the left. 
c. The railroad car is moving with constant velocity to the right. 
d. The railroad car is accelerating to the right. 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
9. Two forces have magnitudes of 11 newtons and 5 newtons. Themagnitude of their sum could NOT be equal to which of the following values?
a. 16 newtons 
b. 5 newtons 
c. 9 newtons 
d. 7 newtons 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
10. A block of metal which weighs 60 newtons in air and 40 newtonsunder water has a density, in kilograms per meter cubed, of:
a. 1000 
b. 3000 
c. 5000 
d. 7000 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
11. If the distance between two objects, each of mass 'M', is tripled, theforce of attraction between the two objects is:
a. 1/2 the original force 
b. 1/3 the original force 
c. 1/9 the original force 
d. unchanged 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
12. In physics, a radian per second is a unit of:
a. angular displacement 
b. angular velocity 
c. angular acceleration 
d. angular momentum. 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
13. If the resultant force acting on a body of constant mass is zero, thebody's momentum is:
a. increasing 
b. decreasing 
c. always zero 
d. constant 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
14. Which of the following scientists is responsible for the exclusionprinciple which states that two objects may NOT occupy the same space at the same time? Wasit:
a. Heisenberg 
b. Bohr 
c. Teller 
d. Pauli 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
15. The force acting between two point charges can be computed usingwhich of the following laws?
a. Ohm's Law 
b. Ampere's Law 
c. Coulomb's Law 
d. Newton's Second Law. 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
16. Induced electric currents can be explained using which of thefollowing laws?
a. Gauss's Law 
b. Faraday's Law 
c. Ohm's Law 
d. Ampere's Law 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
17. For a negative point charge, the electric field vectors:
a. circle the charge 
b. point radially in toward the charge 
c. point radially away from the charge 
d. cross at infinity 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
18. For an infinite sheet of positive charge, the electric field lines:
a. run parallel to the sheet of charge 
b. are perpendicular to the sheet of charge and point in toward the sheet 
c. are perpendicular to the sheet of charge and point away from the sheet 
d. fall off as one over r squared 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
19. Five coulombs of charge are placed on a thin-walled conductingshell. Once the charge has come to rest, the electric potential inside the hollow conducting shell isfound to be:
a. zero 
b. uniform inside the sphere and equal to the electric potential on the surface of the sphere 
c. smaller than the electric potential outside the sphere 
d. varying as one over r squared. 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
20. Three capacitors with different capacitances are connected in series.Which of the following statements is TRUE?
a. All three of the capacitors have the same potential difference between their plates. 
b. The magnitude of the charge is the same on all of the capacitor plates. 
c. The capacitance of the system depends on the voltage applied across the three 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
21. For a parallel-plate capacitor with plate area "A" and plateseparation "d", the capacitance is proportional to which of the following?
a. A divided by d squared 
b. A times d 
c. A divided by d 
d. d divided by A 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
22. A constant potential difference is applied across the plates of aparallel-plate capacitor. Neglecting any edge effects, the electric field inside the capacitor is:
a. constant 
b. varying as one over r squared 
c. decreasing as one moves from the positive to the negative plate z) zero 
d. none of the above
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
23. An infinitely long wire carries a current of three amps. The magneticfield outside the wire:
a. points radially away from the wire 
b. points radially inward 
c. circles the wire 
d. is zero. 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
24. A copper rod which is 1 centimeter in diameter carries a current of 5amps. The current is distributed uniformly throughout the rod. The magnetic field half waybetween the axis of the rod and its outside edge is:
a. zero. 
b. pointing radially outward 
c. pointing radially inward 
d. circles the axis of the rod 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
25. Iron is what type of magnetic material? Is it:
a. diamagnetic 
b. paramagnetic 
c. ferromagnetic 
d. non-magnetic 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
26. A standing wave is formed on a tightly stretched string. Thedistance between a node and an antinode is:
a. 1/8 wavelength 
b. 1/4 wavelength 
c. 1/2 wavelength 
d. 1 wavelength 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
27. When a physical property such as charge exists in discrete "packets"rather than in continuous amounts, the property is said to be:
a. discontinuous 
b. abrupt 
c. quantized 
d. noncontinuous 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
28. An organ pipe which is open at both ends resonates at itsfundamental frequency. Neglecting any end effects, what wavelength is formed by this pipe in thismode of vibration if the pipe is 2 meters long?
a. 2 meters 
b. 4 meters 
c. 6 meters 
d. 8 meters. 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
29. Whose principle or law states that each point on a wavefront may beconsidered a new wave source? Is it:
a. Snell's Law 
b. Huygen's Principle 
c. Young's Law 
d. Hertz's Law. 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
30. The wave nature of light is demonstrated by which of the following?
a. the photoelectric effect 
b. color 
c. the speed of light 
d. diffraction 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
31. The collision between a photon and a free electron was firstexplained by which of the following scientists?
a. Einstein 
b. Heisenberg 
c. Compton 
d. Bohr 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
32. The Tesla and the Gauss are units of measure of:
a. conductance 
b. magnetic field strength 
c. magnetic flux 
d. electrical current 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
33. Which of the following colors of visible light has the longestwavelength? Is it:
a. violet 
b. green 
c. yellow 
d. red 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
34. A 10 kilogram mass rests on a horizontal frictionless surface. Ahorizontal force of 5 Newtons is applied to the mass. After the force has been applied for 1second, the velocity of the mass is:
a. 0 meters per second 
b. 0.5 meters per second 
c. 5 meters per second 
d. 50 meters per second 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
35. A worker lifts a 10 kilogram block a vertical height of 2 meters. Thework he does on the block is:
a. 5 Joules 
b. 20 Joules 
c. 49 Joules 
d. 200 Joules 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
36. An impulse of 10 kilogram-meter per second acting on an objectwhose mass is 5 kilogram will cause a change in the objects velocity of:
a. 0.5 meters per second 
b. 2 meters per second 
c. 10 meters per second 
d. 50 meters per second 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
37. The time needed for a net force of 10 newtons to change the velocityof a 5 kilograms mass by 3 meters/second is:
a. 1.5 seconds 
b. 6 seconds 
c. 16.7 seconds 
d. 150 seconds 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
38. The value of G, the universal gravitational constant, was measuredexperimentally by:
a. Newton 
b. Cavendish 
c. Copernicus 
d. Kepler 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
39. Two steel balls are at a distance S from one another. As the mass ofONE of the balls is doubled, the gravitational force of attraction between them is:
a. quartered 
b. halved 
c. doubled 
d. quadrupled 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
40. If the distance between the earth and moon were halved, the force ofthe attraction between them would be:
a. one fourth as great 
b. one half as great 
c. twice as great 
d. four times as great 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
41. As a 10 kilogram mass on the end of a spring passes through itsequilibrium position, the kinetic energy of the mass is 20 joules. The speed of the mass is:
a. 2.0 meters per second 
b. 4.0 meters per second 
c. 5.0 meters per second 
d. 6.3 meters per second 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
42. As a longitudinal wave moves through a medium, the particles of themedium:
a. vibrate in a path parallel to the path of the wave 
b. vibrate in a path perpendicular to the path of the wave 
c. follow the wave along its entire path 
d. do not move 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
43. As a pendulum is raised to higher altitudes, its period:
a. increases 
b. decreases 
c. remains the same 
d. decreases, then remains the same 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
44. Two vibrating particles that are "out of phase" differ in the phase oftheir vibration by:
a. 1/4 cycle 
b. 1/2 cycle 
c. 3/4 cycle 
d. 1 cycle 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
45. The SI unit of pressure is the:
a. Torr 
b. dyne per centimeter squared 
c. atmosphere 
d. pascal 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
46. An electroscope charged WITHOUT contacting a charged body ischarged by:
a. induction 
b. conduction 
c. convection 
d. insulation 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
47. The potential drop between the terminals of a battery is equal to thebattery's EMF when:
a. no current is drawn from the battery 
b. a very large current is drawn from the battery 
c. the internal resistance of the battery is very large 
d. the resistance in the external circuit is small 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
48. To convert a galvanometer to a voltmeter, you should add a:
a. high resistance in series 
b. high resistance in parallel 
c. low resistance in series 
d. low resistance in parallel 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
49. The greatest induced EMF will occur in a straight wire moving atconstant speed through a uniform magnetic field when the angle between the direction of thewire's motion and the direction of the magnetic field is
a. 0 degrees 
b. 30 degrees 
c. 60 degrees 
d. 90 degrees 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
50. A 10 volt battery connected to a capacitor delivers a charge of 0.5coulombs. The capacitance of the capacitor is:
a. 2 x 10-2 farads 
b. 5 x 10-2 farads 
c. 2 farads 
d. 5 farads 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
51. Two light rays will interfere constructively with maximum amplitudeif the path difference between them is:
a. one wavelength 
b. one-half wavelength 
c. one-quarter wavelength 
d. one-eighth wavelength 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
52. Light is normally incident on a thin soap film and is reflected. If thewavelength of this light is "L" and the index of refraction of the soap film is "N", completedestructive interference will occur for a film thickness of:
a. L / 8N 
b. L / 4N 
c. L / 2N 
d. 3L / 4N 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
53. The Michelson interferometer was designed to study the nature of:
a. water waves 
b. sound waves 
c. an "ether" 
d. sunlight 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
54. The Millikan experiment showed that electric charge was:
a. negative 
b. quantized 
c. positive 
d. unmeasurable 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
55. When a metal becomes a superconductor, there is a tremendousdecrease in its:
a. total volume 
b. electrical resistance 
c. length 
d. density 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
56. An x-ray photon collides with a free electron, and the photon isscattered. During this collision there is conservation of:
a. momentum but not energy 
b. neither momentum nor energy 
c. energy but not momentum 
d. both momentum and energy 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
57. In the sun, helium is produced from hydrogen by:
a. radioactive decay 
b. disintegration 
c. fission 
d. fusion 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
58. The half-life of an isotope of an element is 5 days. The mass of a 1gram sample of this isotope remaining after 20 days is:
a. 0.312 grams 
b. 0.625 grams 
c. 1.25 grams 
d. 2.50 grams 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
59. The idea that electrons revolved in orbits around the nucleus of anatom without radiating energy away from the atom was postulated by:
a. Thompson 
b. Bohr 
c. Rutherford 
d. Einstein 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
60. Alpha particles are nuclei of:
a. hydrogen 
b. helium 
c. oxygen 
d. nitrogen 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
61. A ball falling vertically from rest for 3 seconds travels very nearly:
a. 14.7 meters 
b. 29.4 meters 
c. 44.1 meters 
d. 88.2 meters 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
62. A car is moving along a straight horizontal road at a speed of 2meters per second. The brakes are applied and a constant force of 5000 Newtons decelerates thecar to a stop in 10 seconds. The mass of the car is:
a. 1250 kilograms 
b. 2500 kilograms 
c. 5000 kilograms 
d. 10,000 kilograms 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
63. A girl throws a 0.1 kilogram ball at a wall. The ball hits the wallperpendicularly with a velocity of 5 meters per second and then bounces straight back with avelocity of 4 meters per second. The change in the momentum of the ball is:
a. 0.1 kilogram-meters per second 
b. 0.4 kilogram-meters per second 
c. 0.5 kilogram-meters per second 
d. 0.9 kilogram-meters per second 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
64. A satellite of mass "M" is in orbit around the earth. If a secondsatellite of mass "2M" is to be placed in the same orbit, the second satellite must have a velocitywhich is:
a. half the velocity of the first satellite 
b. the same as the velocity of the first satellite 
c. twice the velocity of the first satellite 
d. four times the velocity of the first satellite 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
65. Which of the answers listed below best completes the statement:The rate at which any part of a wave travels from one place to another determines the wave's:
a. propagation velocity 
b. period 
c. amplitude 
d. frequency 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
66. A spring with a force constant of 100 Newtons per meter is loadewith a mass of 1.0 kilogram. The period of vibration of this system is:
a. .03 seconds 
b. .06 seconds 
c. .31 seconds 
d. .63 seconds 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
67. The first instrument used for measuring temperature was the gasthermoscope invented by:
a. Celsius 
b. Galileo 
c. Centigrade 
d. Fahrenheit 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
68. The first law of thermodynamics is concerned with the conservationof
a. energy 
b. momentum 
c. charge 
d. matter 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
69. Which of the following best completes the statement: The calorie isthe amount of heat needed to raise:
a. 1 gram of water 1 degree Celsius 
b. 1 gram of water 1 degree Rankin 
c. 1 kilogram of water 1 degree Celsius 
d. 1 kilogram of water 1 degree Kelvin 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
70. Units commonly used for entropy are
a. kilograms per degree Kelvin 
b. Joules per degree Kelvin 
c. Newtons per Coulomb 
d. ergs 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
71. The amount of heat required to change a boiling liquid to a gas atthe same temperature depends on one of the following properties of the liquid. Does it depend onthe liquid's:
a. heat of fusion 
b. heat of vaporization 
c. temperature 
d. density 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
72. According to the second law of thermodynamics, energy tends tobecome more and more unavailable for conversion from:
a. thermal to kinetic energy 
b. kinetic to thermal energy 
c. thermal to mechanical energy 
d. mechanical to thermal energy 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
73. When a charge moves through an electric circuit in the direction ofan electric force it does one of the following four things. Does it:
a. lose potential energy and gain kinetic energy 
b. gain potential energy and lose kinetic energy 
c. lose both potential and kinetic energy 
d. gain both potential and kinetic energy 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
74. Which one of the following is the name of a device used to measurvoltage without drawing ANY current from the circuit being measured? Is it:
a. a wattmeter 
b. a galvanometer 
c. an ammeter 
d. a potentiometer 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
75. Lenz's law is an example of the law of conservation of one of thefollowing. Is it conservation of:
a. mass 
b. charge 
c. momentum 
d. energy 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
76. After a projectile is fired horizontally near the earth's surface, thehorizontal component of its velocity, neglecting any air resistance:
a. increases steadily 
b. decreases steadily 
c. first decreases, then increases 
d. remains constant 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
77. Two bodies of equal mass are moving in circular paths at equal speedThe first body moves in a circle whose radius is twice as great as that of the second. The ratio ofthe centripetal or radial acceleration of the first body to that of the second is:
a. 1 to 4 
b. 1 to 3 
c. 1 to 2 
d. 1 to 1 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
78. A force applied to a rocket gives it an upward acceleration equal to2 times the acceleration of gravity. The magnitude of the force is equal to:
a. the weight of the rocket 
b. twice the weight of the rocket 
c. three times the weight of the rocket 
d. four times the weight of the rocket 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
79. A satellite is observed to move in a circle about the earth at aconstant speed. This means that the force acting upon it is:
a. zero 
b. parallel to the direction of the satellite's instantaneous velocity 
c. perpendicular to the direction of the satellite's instantaneous velocity 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
80. When a person stands on a scale in an elevator at rest, the scalereads 800 newtons. When the elevator is allowed to fall freely with acceleration of gravity, thescale reads one of the following. Does the scale read:
a. 1600 newtons 
b. 800 newtons 
c. 400 newtons 
d. 0 newtons 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
81. A 10,000-watt motor operates an elevator weighing 5000 newtons.Assuming no frictional losses, how high is the elevator raised in 10 seconds. Is it raised:
a. 2 meters 
b. 20 meters 
c. 50 meters 
d. 100 meters 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
82. A machine's output is 4000 joules and its frictional losses are 1000joules. Which of the following is its efficiency? Is it:
a. 25% 
b. 30% 
c. 75% 
d. 80% 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
83. A machine having an efficiency of 50% does 500 joules of work.Which of the following is the work input? Is it:
a. 500 joules 
b. 250 joules 
c. 1000 joules 
d. 2500 joules 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
84. The relationship between kinetic energy and the potential energy of aswinging pendulum bob is one of the following. Is it:
a. kinetic energy is greater than potential energy 
b. kinetic energy is less than potential energy 
c. kinetic energy is equal to potential energy 
d. kinetic energy plus potential energy equals a constant 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
85. A 10 kilogram ball falls from a height of 5 meters and rebounds fromthe floor to a height of 3 meters. The energy lost by the ball is:
a. 20 joules 
b. 98 joules 
c. 196 joules 
d. 294 joules 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
86. A rise in temperature of 20 Kelvin degrees is equal to a rise of:
a. 20 degrees Celsius 
b. 36 degrees Celsius 
c. 68 degrees Celsius 
d. 293 degrees Celsius 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
87. A kilocalorie is equal to one of the following. Is it equal to:
a. 4.2 Joules 
b. 1000 Joules 
c. 4200 Joules 
d. 10,000 Joules 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
88. An increase in the motion of the molecules of a gas confined in asteel tank will be observed in one of the following ways. Will it be observed as an increase in:
a. the temperature of the gas only 
b. the pressure of the gas only 
c. both the temperature and pressure of the gas 
d. the temperature of the gas and a decrease in its pressure 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
89. According to the kinetic theory, the Kelvin temperature of an idealgas is proportional to which one of the following. Is the temperature proportional to the gas'saverage molecular:
a. velocity 
b. momentum 
c. kinetic energy 
d. potential energy 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
90. Under which of the following conditions does the behavior of a realgas resemble that of an ideal gas? Is it:
a. under all conditions of temperature and pressure 
b. only at very high pressure 
c. only when the gas is near condensation 
d. only at low densities when the molecules are relatively far apart 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
91. Two waves of equal wavelength will interfere destructively mosteffectively under one of the following conditions. Will the interference be most effective when thewaves are:
a. in phase and have equal amplitudes 
b. in phase and have unequal amplitudes 
c. 180 degrees out of phase and have equal amplitudes 
d. 180 degress out of phase and have unequal amplitudes 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
92. As the temperature of the air increases from 0 degrees C to 20degrees C, the wavelength of a sound made by a tuning fork of fixed frequency does which of thefollowing? Does the wavelength
a. increase 
b. decrease 
c. remain the same 
d. increase up to a maximum, then remain constant 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
93. The ENERGY associated with a photon depends upon the photon's:
a. velocity 
b. frequency 
c. amplitude 
d. the brightness of the source from which it comes 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
94. When a beam of ordinary white light is passed through a Polaroidplate filter, the intensity of the beam that emerges is:
a. equal to that of the incident beam 
b. about 0.9 that of the incident beam 
c. about one-half that of the incident beam 
d. practically zero 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
95. A thin double-concave lens produces images which are:
a. larger than the object 
b. smaller than the object 
c. the same size as the object 
d. one cannot tell from this information 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
96. When white light is passed through a double slit which of thefollowing statements is TRUE:
a. Each of the bright bands is dispersed into a spectrum 
b. Only the central band is dispersed into a spectrum 
c. All the bright bands except the central one are dispersed into a spectrum 
d. Each band has a single color different from its neighboring bands 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
97. A beam of white light is passed through a diffraction grating and theresulting spectrum is allowed to fall on a screen. Which one of the following is the color of lightthat undergoes the greatest deviation from its original direction. Is it:
a. red 
b. yellow 
c. blue 
d. violet 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
98. Which of the following are the parts of a DC generator that convertthe AC in the armature to DC in the external circuit. Are these parts the:
a. field poles 
b. slip rings and the brushes 
c. commutator and the brushes 
d. armature and the core 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
99. A P-type semiconductor is doped to produce one of the following.Will it produce:
a. both holes and electrons 
b. positive electrons 
c. negative electrons 
d. holes 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
100. When an atomic nucleus emits a beta particle, one of its neutronsdisintegrates into one of the following set of particles. Does it disintegrate into:
a. a positron and an electron 
b. a proton, an electron, and an antineutrino 
c. a proton, an electron, and a positron 
d. a neutrino and an antineutrino 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
101. One of the following is a device that detects charged particles butdoes NOT show their tracks. Is this device the:
a. spark chamber 
b. photographic plate 
c. scintillation counter 
d. bubble chamber 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
102. The photomultiplier tube in the scintillation counter multiplies one ofthe following. Does it multiply:
a. scintillations 
b. electrons 
c. ions 
d. photons 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
103. The emission of a positron from a radioactive atom is generallyaccompanied by the emission of one of the following. Is it accompanied by the emission of:
a. a meson 
b. a baryon 
c. an antineutrino 
d. a neutrino 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
104. The gravitational constant for the universe was measured by whichof the following?
a. Kepler 
b. Einstein 
c. Newton 
d. Cavendish 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
105. If you start with 24 grams of a radioactive element with a half-life ofone month, how many grams of the radioactive element will be left after 2 months?
a. 1.5 grams 
b. 3 grams 
c. 6 grams 
d. 12 grams 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
106. How many colors of quarks are believed to exist? Is it:
a. 1 
b. 3 
c. 5 
d. 7 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
107. A child weighing 50 Newtons is on a swing. He goes from aminimum height of 0.2 meters to a maximum height of 1.5 meters. His maximum speed is closestto:
a. 3 meters per second 
b. 5 meters per second 
c. 7 meters per second 
d. 9 meters per second 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
108. A train locomotive whose mass is 1 x 106 kilograms is travelingEAST at a speed of 100 kilometers per hour. A NORTHERLY wind is applying a force of 100Newtons on the locomotive. How much work is the wind doing on the locomotive for each 10meters it travels?
a. 0 joules 
b. 1,000 joules 
c. 10,000 joules 
d. 100,000 joules 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
109. The density of seawater is greater than that of fresh water. A boatwill float:
a. Higher in fresh water than in seawater 
b. Lower in fresh water than in seawater 
c. At the same level in both 
d. Any of the above, depending upon its shape 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
110. How many times more intense is an 80 decibel sound than a 40decibel sound?
a. 2 
b. 40 
c. 1000 
d. 10,000 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
111. What law describes the force between two stationary electricallycharged objects?
a. Ampere's law 
b. Coulomb's law 
c. Kirchoff's Rules (pron: kir-koff rules) 
d. Ohm's law 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
112. A circuit has a resistance of 200 ohms. The resistance of the circuitcan be reduced to 120 ohms by adding which of the following to the circuit.
a. 80 ohm resistor in series 
b. 150 ohm resistor in parallel 
c. 240 ohm resistor in series 
d. 300 ohm resistor in parallel 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
113. A spring with a force constant k is cut into thirds. The forceconstant of each of the new springs is
a. k 
b. 3k 
c. (1/3)k (read: one third k) 
d. 9k 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
114. When a 2 kilogram mass is suspended from a spring, the springstretches 4 cm. The force constant of the spring is approximately:+
a. .5 newtons per meter 
b. 5 newtons per meter 
c. 50 newtons per meter 
d. 500 newtons per meter 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
115. Which of the following sets of 3 forces CANNOT have a vector sumof zero
a. 10, 10 and 10 Newtons 
b. 10, 10 and 20 Newtons 
c. 10, 20 and 20 Newtons 
d. 10, 20 and 40 Newtons 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
116. A small cluster of stars appear, after many decades of observation,to be converging toward a common point in the sky. Does the light from these stars show a:
a. red Doppler shift 
b. blue Doppler shift 
c. no Doppler shift 
d. none of the above
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
117. When a fast charged particle traverses a dielectric medium at avelocity exceeding the velocity of light in that medium, radiation is emitted. This radiation isknown as:
a. point radiation 
b. Cerenkov radiation 
c. Synchrotron radiation 
d. Bremsstrahlung 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
118. Which of the following statements dealing with simple harmonicmotion of a mass-spring system is TRUE?
a. The acceleration is largest when the oscillating mass is instantaneously at rest. 
b. The larger the spring force constant the larger the period. 
c. The period of the motion depends linearly on the amplitude of the motion. 
d. The acceleration is larger when the oscillating mass has its greatest velocity. 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
119. An ice skater is rotating with her arms extended. When she pulls inher arms her rate of rotation increases. Which of the following statements dealing with theprocess is TRUE?
a. Her moment of inertia is increased. 
b. Kinetic energy is conserved. 
c. The skater does work when pulling in her arms. 
d. Angular momentum is increased. 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
120. If viewed on an oscilloscope, the loudness of a sound wave would beassociated with the wave's:
a. frequency 
b. wavelength 
c. velocity 
d. amplitude 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
121. If a sled has a constant acceleration of 2 meters per second squaredand starts from rest, the distance in meters that it will have covered after 5 seconds is:
a. 10 meters 
b. 20 meters 
c. 25 meters 
d. 50 meters 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
122. The neutrons in an atom:
a. are part of the nuclear charge 
b. rotate about the nucleus in elliptical orbits 
c. vary in number with different isotopes 
d. are always equal in number to the total number of protons 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
123. Which of the following phenomena suggest that light may be atransverse wave?
a. reflection 
b. polarization 
c. photoelectric effect 
d. diffraction 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
124. In simple harmonic motion, the acceleration is:
a. constant 
b. proportional to the distance from the central position 
c. greatest when the velocity is greatest 
d. none of the above 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
125. When a liquid moves through a pipe having a varying diameter, thepressure against the inside walls of the pipe will be:
a. the same throughout 
b. lowest where the diameter is smallest 
c. lowest where the diameter is largest 
d. lowest where the velocity of flow is lowest 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
126. The gravitational potential energy of an object close to the groundvaries:
a. inversely as its distance from the ground 
b. directly as its distance from the ground 
c. inversely as the square of its distance from the ground 
d. directly as the square of its distance from the ground 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
127. When the image formed by a convex mirror is compared to itsobject, the image is usually:
a. erect and smaller 
b. inverted and imaginary 
c. real and inverted 
d. real and erect 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
128. One nanometer is equal to:
a. 10-12 meters 
b. 10-11 meters 
c. 10-3 meters 
d. 10-9 meters 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
129. In radioactive decay, the emission of an electron is characteristic of:
a. Alpha decay 
b. Beta decay 
c. Gamma decay 
d. X-rays 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
130. Energy is described as the capacity for:
a. reactivity 
b. combustion 
c. transformation 
d. doing work 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
131. Kinetic energy is energy of:
a. position 
b. radiation 
c. motion 
d. formation 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
132. The kinetic energy of a stone falling near the earth's surface througha vacuum increases with the:
a. square root of its velocity 
b. cube root of its velocity 
c. square of its velocity 
d. cube of its velocity 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
133. Which of the following does NOT travel in a vacuum?
a. radio waves 
b. gamma rays 
c. magnetic waves 
d. sound waves 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
134. An incident ray comes in parallel to the principle axis of a concavemirror. Is it reflected:
a. back along the incident ray 
b. at 30 degrees to incident ray 
c. through the focal point 
d. through the center of curvature 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
135. Two parallel wires carrying currents in opposite directions will:
a. attract each other 
b. repel each other 
c. cause an electric arc to form 
d. not affect each other 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
136. Assuming all other parameters remain constant, what happens to thepressure of a gas when the volume of the gas is increased?
a. increases 
b. decreases 
c. fluctuates sinusoidally 
d. remains the same 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
137. If a metallic object is heated, its density generally:
a. increases 
b. decreases 
c. fluctuates randomly 
d. remains the same 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
138. Which wave has the highest frequency?
a. microwaves 
b. infrared waves 
c. ultraviolet waves 
d. radio waves 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
139. The characteristic that distinguishes a laser beam from an ordinarylight beam is:
a. the greater frequency of the laser beam 
b. the coherence of the laser beam 
c. the color of the laser beam 
d. the greater polarization of the laser beam 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
140. The mass spectrograph directly yields a value for which one of thefollowing?
a. mass of a photon 
b. mass of a neutron 
c. masses of isotopes of elements 
d. mass to charge ratio of ions 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
141. An alpha particle colliding with an electron loses:
a. none of its energy 
b. little of its energy 
c. half of its energy 
d. all of its energy 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
142. The term "laminar flow" is most often associated with thedescription of:
a. conduction of sound by waves 
b. current flow in transistors 
c. effects of viscosity of liquids 
d. passage of light rays through a liquid 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
143. Two point masses, M1 and M2, are 14 centimeters apart. M1 has amass of 2 grams. M2 has a mass of 5 grams. Locate the center-of-mass of this system.
a. 4 cm from M1 
b. 4 cm from M2 
c. 5 cm from M2 
d. 7 cm from M1 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
144. The mass, in kilograms, of an object whose weight on earth at sealevel is 490 newtons is:
a. 50 kilograms 
b. 100 kilograms 
c. 225 kilograms 
d. 1,100 kilograms 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
145. When the velocity of an object is tripled, another quantity which istripled at the same time is the object's:
a. momentum 
b. potential energy 
c. kinetic energy 
d. mass 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
146. What is the only non-metal element that is a liquid at roomtemperature and one atmosphere?
a. bromine 
b. argon 
c. silicon 
d. selenium 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
147. Which of the following is NOT a noble gas?
a. radon 
b. xenon (pron: zee-non) 
c. astatine (pron: as-tah-teen) 
d. krypton 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
148. What is the SI unit of pressure?
a. Pascal 
b. Torr 
c. Dyne 
d. Kelvin 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
149. What is 20 degrees Celsius in degrees Kelvin?
a. 70 degrees 
b. 293 degees 
c. 100 degrees 
d. 212 degrees 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
150. What is the value given to standard pressure in Torrs?
a. 540 
b. 660 
c. 760 
d. 780 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
151. Who invented the barometer?
a. Torricelli 
b. Avogadro 
c. Rutherford 
d. Becquerel 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
152. The random motion of particles suspended in a fluid is called:
a. Boson Condensation 
b. Fermi Motion 
c. Brownian Motion 
d. Pauli Motion 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
153. The most efficient heat engine that can operate between twotemperature reservoirs T1 and T2 is:
a. jet engine 
b. internal combustion engine 
c. Carnot engine (pron: car-no) 
d. steam engine 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
154. The formation of pockets of gas in a liquid is called:
a. absorption 
b. cavitation 
c. adsorption 
d. dissolving 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
155. In the Compton effect, a photon of wavelength l (read: lambdw)collides with a stationary electron. The wavelength of the emitted photon is:
a. longer than l 
b. shorter than l 
c. the same as l 
d. no photon is emitted 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
156. The change of a gas to a liquid is called:
a. vaporization 
b. sublimation 
c. condensation 
d. freezing 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
157. A semiconductor device made up of a single p-n Junction is called a:
a. transistor 
b. diode 
c. Fet 
d. integrated circuit 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
158. The law that relates the electric field at the surface of a region to theamount of charge inside the region is called:
a. Coulomb's Law 
b. Faraday's Law 
c. Gauss' Law 
d. Biot-Savart Law 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
159. The four underlying equations in electromagnetic theory are called:
a. Einstein's Equations 
b. Maxwell's Equations 
c. Newton's Equations 
d. Faraday's Law 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
160. The splitting of an atomic nucleus is called:
a. fission 
b. fusion 
c. cleavage 
d. separation 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
161. In an electromagnetic wave, what is the relative orientation of themagnetic and electric fields?
a. 180 degrees 
b. 90 degrees 
c. 45 degrees 
d. 22.5 degrees 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
162. When light is reflected from a surface, the angle of incidence is:
a. 30 degrees 
b. equal to the angle of reflection 
c. 90 degrees 
d. 180 degrees 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
163. According to standard convention, the angles of incidence andreflection for a plane surface are measured from:
a. the reflecting surface 
b. lines at 45 degrees to the reflecting surface 
c. a line at 90 degrees to the reflecting surface 
d. there is no standard 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
164. A real image always appears:
a. larger than object 
b. inverted 
c. erect 
d. same size as object 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
165. When light enters an optically denser medium, the light ray:
a. bends away from a normal to surface 
b. passes through unbent 
c. bends towards a normal to surface 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
166. The speed of light in vacuum "C" divided by the Index of Refraction"N" gives the:
a. frequency of the light 
b. speed of the light in the medium 
c. energy of the light 
d. wavelength of the light 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
167. In order for fiber optics to work, the incident light inside the fibermust hit the wall of the fiber at:
a. 90 degrees 
b. 45 degrees 
c. an angle greater than the critical angle 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
168. When light is traveling through a vacuum, what is the product of thelight's wavelength and frequency equal to?
a. speed of light 
b. Plank's constant 
c. momentum 
d. wave number 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
169. The inverse of wavelength is referred to as:
a. wave number 
b. frequency 
c. velocity 
d. momentum 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
170. The GeV is a unit of:
a. momentum 
b. energy 
c. velocity 
d. time 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
171. In AC Circuit Theory, the term that replaces the resistance is:
a. inductance 
b. capacitance 
c. impedance 
d. reactance 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
172. The anti-particle to an electron is:
a. proton 
b. positron 
c. neutron 
d. anti-proton 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
173. The gravitational potential energy between two bodies is inverselyproportional to:
a. the cube of the distance 
b. the first power of the distance 
c. the square of the distance 
d. it has no relation to distance 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
174. An object is projected vertically upward near the surface of theearth. At the very top of its path, the object's velocity is zero, and its acceleration is:
a. 0 
b. 9.8 meters per second squared DOWNWARD 
c. 9.8 meters per second squared UPWARD 
d. depends on the mass of the object 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
175. Of the following choices, approximately how many times greater isthe mass of a proton than the mass of an electron?
a. 200 
b. 2000 
c. 20,000 
d. 200,000 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
176. A twin goes on a high speed space journey (near the speed of light)and returns to meet his twin who stayed on earth. At their meeting the traveling twin has:
a. aged more than the earthbound twin 
b. aged less than the earthbound twin 
c. aged the same as the earthbound twin 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
177. Which of the following forces is nonconservative?
a. gravitational force 
b. electrostatic force 
c. sliding frictional force 
d. restorative force of a spring 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
178. Which of the following is NOT closely associated with anon-magnetic Phase Diagram?
a. Eutectic Temperature (pron: you-tek-tik) 
b. Curie Point 
c. Solidus 
d. Liquidus Curves 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
179. A bimetallic strip commonly found in home furnace thermostatsworks because of the difference in this property of the two metals. Is it:
a. thermal shock 
b. thermal conductivity 
c. thermal expansion 
d. thermal diffusivity 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
180. Which of the following physical properties is TRUE of most denseceramic materials?
a. high tensile strength 
b. good ductility 
c. high compressive strength 
d. high electrical conductivity 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
181. The Modulus of Elasticity for a material refers to:
a. the ability of a material to resist corrosion 
b. the ratio of stress over strain 
c. the maximum load over the cross sectional area 
d. none of the above 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
182. The rest mass of an electron is closest to:
a. 10-15 kilograms 
b. 10-17 kilograms 
c. 10-30 kilograms 
d. 10-50 kilograms 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
183. Refracting telescopes, if uncorrected, suffer from chromaticaberration. Chromatic aberration occurs because:
a. red light is focused more strongly than blue light 
b. blue light is focused more strongly than red light 
c. the outer light rays are focused more strongly than the central rays, 
d. the central light rays are focused more strongly than the outer rays. 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
184. Which of the following scientific instruments has the greatestresolving power?
a. electron microscope 
b. light microscope 
c. phase-contrast microscope 
d. centrifuge 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
185. One curie is equal to:
a. the square root of the binding energy 
b. the energy of an alpha-particle 
c. 3.7 x 1010 disintegrations per second 
d. mc2 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
186. Isotopes of an element have different numbers of:
a. electrons 
b. protons 
c. neutrons 
d. leptons 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
187. Which one of the following particles travels at the speed of light?
a. neutrons 
b. electrons 
c. photons 
d. muons 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
188. Heat is transferred from the sun to the earth primarily by:
a. conduction 
b. convection 
c. radiation 
d. condensation 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
189. A block of wood initially at rest slides down an inclined plane.Neglecting friction, the kinetic energy of the block at the bottom of the plane is:
a. all converted into heat 
b. equal to its potential energy (with respect to the bottom of the plane) when it was at 
c. less than its kinetic energy at the top of the plane 
d. dependant on the materials of which the block is made 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
190. When an atom undergoes beta decay, the atomic number of thenucleus
a. is unchanged 
b. increases by one 
c. decreases by one 
d. none of the above 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
191. The force on a charged particle moving parallel to magnetic fieldlines is
a. in the direction of the field 
b. zero 
c. perpendicular to the field 
d. in the opposite direction of the field 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
192. In any collision, which of the following is conserved:
a. kinetic energy 
b. velocity 
c. momentum 
d. potential energy 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
193. Which of the following will increase the ANGULAR MOMENTUMof a person spinning on a rotatable frictionless bar chair?
a. moving the arms closer to the body 
b. moving the arms farther from the body 
c. moving one arm farther from the body and the other arm closer to the body with 
d. none of the above
d. none of these 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
194. For the hydrogen atom, which series describes electron transitions tothe N = 2 orbit? Is it the:
a. Lyman series 
b. Paschen series 
c. Balmer series 
d. Pfund series 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
195. The unit of mass in the English system of measure is which of thefollowing?
a. pound 
b. gram 
c. slug 
d. dyne 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
196. A pendulum which is suspended from the ceiling of a railroad car isobserved to hang at an angle of 10 degrees to the left of vertical. Which of the following answerscould explain this phenomena?
a. The railroad car is at rest. 
b. The railroad car is accelerating to the left. 
c. The railroad car is moving with constant velocity to the right. 
d. The railroad car is accelerating to the right. 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
197. Newton's second law states that the net force acting on a body isequal to the body's time rate of change of:
a. acceleration 
b. mass 
c. momentum 
d. inertia 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
198. The period of oscillation of a particle undergoing simple harmonicmotion is:
a. independent of the amplitude of the motion 
b. directly proportional to the frequency of oscillation 
c. independent of the frequency of oscillation 
d. none of the above 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
199. The angle between the velocity and acceleration of a body is:
a. never 90 degrees 
b. never 180 degrees 
c. sometimes 180 degrees 
d. never 0 degrees 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
200. In a collision, which of the following four quantities is alwaysconserved?
a. momentum 
b. kinetic energy 
c. torque 
d. moment of inertia 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
201. Of the following terms, which is the product of force and time? Is it:
a. impulse 
b. power 
c. energy 
d. work 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
202. In physics, a radian per second squared is a unit of:
a. angular displacement 
b. angular velocity 
c. angular acceleration 
d. angular momentum. 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
203. At a point halfway between two identical point charges, the electricfield is equal to:
a. zero 
b. half its maximum value 
c. its maximum value 
d. pointing away from the two charges 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
204. Ten coulombs of positive charge are placed on an irregularly-shaped,solid piece of copper. Once the charge has stopped moving, the electric field inside the copper is:
a. zero 
b. changes as one over the radius squared 
c. becomes smaller as you approach the center 
d. becomes larger as you approach the center 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
205. Ten coulombs of charge are placed on a solid copper sphere. Oncethe charge has come to rest, the ELECTRIC POTENTIAL inside the sphere is found to be:
a. zero 
b. uniform inside the sphere and equal to the electric potential on the surface of the 
c. smaller than the electric potential outside the sphere 
d. varying as one over r squared 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
206. Two infinitely long, parallel wires carry currents which are inopposite directions. The two wires:
a. are attracted toward each other 
b. repel each other 
c. have no effect on each other. 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
207. Which one of the following laws best describes the operation of anelectric generator?
a. Ampere's Law 
b. Gauss' Law 
c. Ohm's Law for Conductors 
d. Faraday's Law of Induction 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
208. A wave and its reflection produce a standing wave with the distancefrom NODE to nearest ANTINODE of 4 meters. The wavelength of this wave is:
a. 4 meters 
b. 8 meters 
c. 12 meters 
d. 16 meters 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
209. The wave nature of electrons was EXPERIMENTALLY verified by:
a. Einstein 
b. Davisson and Germer 
c. Balmer 
d. Bohr. 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
210. Diffraction and interference demonstrate which of the following?
a. particle nature of light 
b. wave nature of light 
c. polarization of light 
d. refraction of light 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
211. An electromagnetic wave is ALWAYS:
a. longitudinal 
b. polarized 
c. spherical 
d. transverse. 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
212. The crack of a bullwhip results from the bullwhip's tip:
a. approaching the speed of sound 
b. exceeding the speed of sound 
c. moving with constant velocity 
d. none of the above 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
213. This planet's orbit gave proof of the superiority of Einstein's theoryof gravity over Newton's:
a. Mercury 
b. Earth 
c. Mars 
d. Pluto 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
214. The Weber and the Maxwell are units of measure of:
a. conductance 
b. electrical current 
c. magnetic flux 
d. relative speed 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
215. Carlos is pulling a 40 kilogram cart with a horizontal force of 100newtons. The force of friction on the cart is 20 newtons. The acceleration of the cart is:
a. 2 meters per second squared 
b. 2.5 meters per second squared 
c. 20 meters per second squared 
d. 200 meters per second squared 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
216. A car with a mass of 1000 kilogram is moving at a speed of 10meters per second. The kinetic energy of the car is:
a. 100 Joules 
b. 5000 Joules 
c. 10,000 Joules 
d. 50,000 Joules 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
217. A 10 kilogram object falls from a cliff 100 meters high. At themidpoint of its fall its total energy is:
a. 2450 Joules 
b. 4900 Joules 
c. 10,000 Joules 
d. 20,000 Joules 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
218. During an INELASTIC collision, the colliding bodies
a. lose kinetic energy 
b. keep the same amount of kinetic energy 
c. gains kinetic energy 
d. first lose, then gain kinetic energy 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
219. A satellite travels at a constant speed in a circular orbit. Theacceleration of the satellite is
a. zero 
b. toward the center of the orbit 
c. away from the center of the orbit 
d. at a tangent to the orbit 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
220. The TOTAL energy of a vertically vibrating block attached to aspring is the same:
a. only at those points above the equilibrium position 
b. only at the equilibrium position 
c. only at those points below the equilibrium position 
d. at all points in its motion 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
221. Compressional waves are
a. transverse waves 
b. water waves 
c. longitudinal waves 
d. light waves 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
222. In a charged hollow metal conductor, the charge is
a. on the inside surface only 
b. on both the inside and outside surfaces 
c. on the outside surface only 
d. only between the inside and outside surfaces 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
223. Two negative point charges are 2 meters apart and repel each otherwith a force of 2 newtons. When the distance between the charges is doubled, the force betweenthem is
a. one fourth as great 
b. one half as great 
c. twice as great 
d. four times as great 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
224. The rate at which electrical energy is used is measured in
a. volts 
b. amperes 
c. joules 
d. watts 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
225. For an electromagnetic wave traveling in a vacuum, if the magnitudeof the intensity of the E field is zero, the magnitude of the intensity of the B field is:
a. zero 
b. a negative maximum 
c. a positive maximum 
d. the square root of 2 times the positive maximum 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
226. The effective capacitance of four, 5-microfarad capacitors connectedin series is:
a. 0.20 microfarad 
b. 0.5 microfarad 
c. 1.0 microfarad 
d. 1.25 microfarad 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
227. The terminal voltage of a cell supplying energy to a circuit is usuallyless than its emf because of the cell's
a. size 
b. internal resistance 
c. mass 
d. energy 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
228. A light ray traveling in benzene strikes the benzene-air surface at thecritical angle. The angle of refraction of the light ray is:
a. 30 degrees 
b. 60 degrees 
c. 90 degrees 
d. 180 degrees 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
229. Light bends around sharp corners as a result of
a. refraction 
b. reflection 
c. diffraction 
d. dispersion 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
230. A light ray traveling from glass into air strikes the glass-air surface atan angle 50 degrees to the normal. If the critical angle for the glass-air combination is 42 degrees,the percentage of light reflected from the surface is
a. 6 
b. 25 
c. 38 
d. 100 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
231. In the Millikan oil-drop experiment the UPWARD force on the dropis due to the:
a. gravitational and electric fields 
b. gravitational field and the charge on the drop 
c. electric field and the size of the drop 
d. electric field and the charge on the drop 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
232. In changing from an energy state of -1.51 electron-volts to -3.40electron-volts, an atom emits a photon whose energy is:
a. 1.51 electron-volts 
b. 1.89 electron-volts 
c. 3.40 electron-volts 
d. 4.91 electron-volts 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
233. In an elastic collision, the RELATIVE velocities of separation of thetwo bodies after impact compared with the relative velocity of approach before impact is:
a. always greater 
b. always smaller 
c. always the same 
d. first greater, then smaller 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
234. Two hockey pucks, of unequal mass and connected by a spring ofnegligible mass, rest on a horizontal frictionless surface. The spring is released, and the pucksmove apart. The center of mass of the two pucks does one of the following. Does it:
a. move in a circle 
b. move in the direction of the greater mass 
c. remain stationary 
d. move in the direction of the smaller mass 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
235. A 500 kilogram car moving at 20 meters per second strikes a stonewall and is brought to a halt in 0.1 second. The average force of the car on the wall during impactis:
a. 10 Newtons 
b. 1000 Newtons 
c. 10,000 Newtons 
d. 100,000 Newtons 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
236. A bullet is fired with a muzzle velocity of 1000 meters per secondfrom a rifle clamped to a window 4.9 meters above ground level. Neglecting air resistance, thehorizontal distance from the rifle at which the bullet will strike the ground is
a. 4.9 meters 
b. 500 meters 
c. 1000 meters 
d. 4900 meters 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
237. The acceleration due to gravity on the moon is 1.6 meters persecond squared. If a pendulum is whose length is 6.4 meters is placed on the moon, its period willbe:
a. 1.57 seconds 
b. 3.14 seconds 
c. 12.56 seconds 
d. 25.12 seconds 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
238. Of the following, the type of wave that CANNOT be polarized is
a. electromagnetic 
b. light 
c. sound 
d. radio 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
239. Pressure is equal to:
a. Area divided by force 
b. force divided by area 
c. area times force 
d. area minus force 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
240. The radiator of a room contains 10 kilogram of water. If the watergives off 50,000 calories of heat to the room, the drop in temperature of the water is:
a. 1 degree Celsius 
b. 2 degrees Celsius 
c. 5 degrees Celsius 
d. 10 degrees Celsius 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
241. In N-type semiconductors the majority of the carriers are:
a. holes 
b. electrons 
c. protons 
d. neutrons 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
242. As a pendulum swings from its highest to its lowest point, it has theSMALLEST acceleration when it is:
a. at its lowest point 
b. at its highest point 
c. at a point 1/3 the distance from the top of its swing 
d. at a point 1/2 the distance from the top of its swing. 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
243. Two cars collide head-on. They stop at the point of collision. Bothcars must have one of the following. Do they have
a. equal masses 
b. equal but opposite velocities before the collision 
c. equal but opposite momenta before the collision 
d. none of the above
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
244. When the speed of a train moving on a circular track is doubled, thecentripetal force acting on the train does one of the following. Does the force:
a. remain the same 
b. increase by a factor of 2 
c. increase by a factor of 4 
d. increase by a factor of 8 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
245. It takes 500 watts to operate a machine whose power output is 480watts. Which of the following is the efficiency of the machine? Is it
a. 20% 
b. 48% 
c. 96% 
d. 98% 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
246. Which of the following statements is TRUE about an ELASTICcollision between two particles? Is it true that:
a. neither particle loses any of its kinetic energy 
b. neither particle loses any of its momentum 
c. the velocity gained by one particle is equal to that lost by the other 
d. the total kinetic energy before and after the collision remains constant 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
247. Ten calories of heat are added to 2 grams of water. Thetemperature of the water rises to a total of how many degrees? Is it:
a. 2 degrees Celsius 
b. 5 degrees Celsius 
c. 10 degrees Celsius 
d. 20 degrees Celsius 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
248. If water is warmed from 0 degrees Celsius to 6 degrees Celsius,which of the following things happen. Will the water:
a. expand steadily 
b. contract steadily 
c. expand at first and then contract 
d. contract first then expand 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
249. A gas at 0 degrees C and at normal atmospheric pressure has avolume of 273 cubic centimeters. If it is held at constant pressure until its volume is doubled, itstemperature will be which one of the following? Will it be
a. 2 degrees Celsius 
b. 200 degrees Celsius 
c. 273 degrees Celsius 
d. 546 degrees Celsius 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
250. Infrared rays are absorbed best by which one of the following. Is it:
a. bodies of air 
b. white bodies with rough surfaces 
c. mirrors 
d. black bodies with rough surfaces 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
