Science Bowl Physics

Multiple Choice

1. Energy stored in a body as thermal or internal energy consists of oneof the following. Does it consist of:
a. heat in the form of radiant energy 
b. molecular kinetic energy only 
c. molecular potential energy only 
d. both kinetic and potential energy 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
2. When white light passes through a red plate of glass and thenthrough a green plate of glass which one of the following things occur?
a. the light is totally absorbed 
b. the light that emerges is a combination of red and green 
c. the light that emerges lacks only its red and green components 
d. the light that emerges is green 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
3. By which one of the following can a real image be produced? Can itbe produced by a:
a. concave mirror 
b. plane mirror 
c. diverging lens 
d. convex mirror 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
4. A metal ball on an insulated stand is touched by a positively chargedglass rod. What happens to the metal ball? Does it
a. gain protons and lose electrons 
b. gain protons 
c. gain more protons than electrons 
d. lose electrons 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
5. A zinc plate is attached to the knob of a negatively chargedelectroscope. What will happen to the leaves of the electroscope when ultraviolet light is shownon the zinc plate. Will the leaves:
a. collapse at once 
b. gradually come together 
c. gradually spread further apart 
d. remain unaffected 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
6. A high voltage applied to a gas discharge tube containing neon gasat very low pressure causes a current to flow through the tube. Which one of the following arethe particles that flow towards the cathode? Are they
a. electrons 
b. protons 
c. negatively charged neon ions 
d. positively charged neon ions 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
7. Which of the following phrases completes the following statement:The strength of the electric field between two oppositely charged parallel plates is:
a. a maximum midway between the plates 
b. a maximum near the positively charged plate 
c. constant between the plates except near the edges 
d. zero midway between the plates 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
8. Which one of the following is the advantage of connecting two drycells in parallel instead of in series? Is it because the parallel arrangement:
a. gives twice the EMF of one dry cell 
b. has no internal resistance 
c. generates heat in an external circuit half as fast as would a single cell 
d. has half the internal resistance of a single cell 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
9. Magnetic lines of force have all but one of the followingcharacteristics. The one that they DO NOT have is:
a. they go from the South-pole to the North-pole of a magnet outside of the magnet 
b. they are most concentrated at the poles of a magnet 
c. they pass through copper 
d. they never cross one another 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
10. Which one of the following is the way in which a galvanometer isconverted into a voltmeter? Is it by connecting:
a. a high resistance coil in parallel with its moveable coil 
b. a low resistance coil in parallel with its moveable coil 
c. a high resistance coil in series with its moveable coil 
d. a low resistance coil in series with its moveable coil 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
11. An electron and a proton are moving at the same speed in circularpaths in the same uniform magnetic field. The radius of the path of the proton is one of thefollowing. Is this radius:
a. the same as that of the electron 
b. about 2000 times larger than that of the electron 
c. a little larger than that of the electron 
d. smaller than that of the electron 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
12. In the mass spectrograph, two positively charged ions having thesame velocity pass through a slit and enter a uniform magnetic field at right angles to their initialvelocities. The ions will NOT be separated if:
a. they have the same masses but different charges 
b. they have the same charges but different masses 
c. the products of their charges and their masses are equal 
d. the ratios of their charges to their masses are equal 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
13. A capacitor and a coil are connected in series. The capacitor ischarged and allowed to discharge through the coil. The current that will then flow through thecapacitor-coil combination will do one of the following things. Will it:
a. flow in one direction, beginning at a maximum and decreasing rapidly to zero 
b. oscillate indefinitely 
c. oscillate but diminish steadily to zero 
d. oscillate at high frequency at first but then at slower frequency 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
14. The energy associated with one photon of a light beam isproportional to one of the following. Is it proportional to:
a. the intensity of the light source from which it came 
b. the number of photons in the beam 
c. the frequency of the photon 
d. the speed of the photon 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
15. When a certain beam of light falls upon a metal surface, it ejectsphotoelectrons from it. The number of photoelectrons ejected per second by the beam of lightdepends upon one of the following. Is it proportional to:
a. the threshold frequency of the metal 
b. the work function of the metal 
c. the frequency of the beam 
d. the intensity of the beam 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
16. In Rutherford's experiment involving the deflection of alpha particlesby atomic nuclei, the fact that some of the alpha particles bombarding the thin gold foil wereback-scattered, led to one of the following conclusions. It was concluded that:
a. the charge of an electron is negative 
b. the nucleus of a gold atom carries all its charge 
c. most of the mass of a gold atom is in its nucleus 
d. the nucleus of a gold atom occupies nearly the entire space of the atom 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
17. Standing waves are formed when two sets of waves of equalamplitude and frequency
a. are in phase 
b. are in opposite phase 
c. move through each other in opposite directions 
d. are reflected from the same surface 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
18. The common-emitter transistor circuit can amplify a small currentsignal because a small change in the signal current produces one of the following. Does thechange in signal produce a large change in the:
a. emitter-base voltage 
b. base current 
c. collector current 
d. collector voltage 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
19. The binding energy of a nucleus is defined as one of the following.Is this definition:
a. the energy equivalent to its mass 
b. the mass difference between its neutrons and protons 
c. the energy needed to remove a neutron from the nucleus 
d. the difference between the mass of the nucleus and the sum of the masses of its protons 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
20. In the equation of a nuclear reaction, all but one of the followingquantities are equal to each other on both sides of the equation. Which quantity is NOTconserved:
a. the net electric charge 
b. the total mass-energy 
c. the number of protons 
d. the number of nucleons 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
21. Which of the following terms refer to the amount of heat needed toraise the temperature of a unit mass of a substance through one degree?
a. Heat of fusion 
b. Liquification heat 
c. Internal heat 
d. Specific heat 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
22. There is evidence that quarks come in how many flavors? Is it:
a. 1 
b. 3 
c. 5 
d. 7 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
23. To develop the correct mathematical description of the distribution ofradiated energy of a blackbody with respect to wavelength for a given temperature, Planck foundit necessary to assume that the molecular oscillators of the blackbody emitted and absorbed:
a. no radiant energy 
b. radiant energy in discrete units or quanta 
c. radiant energy in a continuous form 
d. none of the above. 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
24. A curve in the road has a radius of 500 meters, and is banked at anangle of O (read: "theta") for a traffic speed of 90 kilometers per hour, or 25 meters per second.Is O:
a. Less than 2o 
b. Between 2o and 5o 
c. Between 5o and 10o 
d. Greater than 10o 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
25. A two-stage rocket attains a velocity of 3,000 meters per secondwhen it drops the first stage and ignites the second. It consumes 1 kilogram of fuel per secondand its exhaust speed is 2,000 meters per second. What is the thrust on the spacecraft?
a. 2,000 Newtons 
b. 3,000 Newtons 
c. 2,000 Newton-seconds 
d. 3,000 Newton-seconds 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
26. A round viewing window with a 20 centimeter diameter is installed ina tank at the Shedd Aquarium. It is 5 meters below the water surface. The force on the windowis approximately:
a. 1,500 Newtons 
b. 10,000 Newtons 
c. 25,000 Newtons 
d. 50,000 Newtons 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
27. The density of lead is 12 grams per cm3. A lead brick has a mass of1.5 kilograms. Its dimensions are 10 cm by 5 cm by 4 cm. Is it:
a. More than 75% hollow 
b. Between 50 and 75% hollow 
c. Between 25 and 50% hollow 
d. Between 0 and 25% hollow 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
28. Ice skating is possible and practical because of a unique property ofwater. Is it because:
a. The coefficient of kinetic friction of steel on frozen water decreases with decreasing 
b. Ice readily sublimes 
c. The melting point decreases with increasing pressure 
d. Ice is a good thermal insulator 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
29. 1 kilogram of boiling water is poured into an empty thermos whosemass is 1 kilogram and whose temperature is 25o Celsius. No heat is lost from the thermos. Thespecific heats of water and the thermos are 1 and 0.5 kilocalories per kilogram degree Celsius,respectively. Their final temperature is:
a. 50o Celsius 
b. 65o Celsius 
c. 75o Celsius 
d. 90o Celsius 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
30. An aluminum rod at a temperature of 100o Celsius radiates energy ata rate of 10 watts. If its temperature is increased to 200o Celsius, at approximately what rate willit radiate energy?
a. 15 watts 
b. 20 watts 
c. 26 watts 
d. 80 watts 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
31. The coating on the plastic tape you use in your cassette players is
a. diamagnetic 
b. paramagnetic 
c. ferromagnetic 
d. a permanent magnet 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
32. Which color light has the highest frequency?
a. green 
b. violet 
c. red 
d. yellow 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
33. Your Minolta camera has a 50 millimeter lens. The 50 millimeters isthe lens
a. diameter 
b. focal length 
c. magnification 
d. aperture 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
34. You want to put up a mirror at a blind corner in a building. Whichof the following will give you the largest field of view? Is it a:
a. convex mirror 
b. concave mirror 
c. cylindrical mirror 
d. plane mirror 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
35. Dr. Leon Lederman and two other physicists won the Nobel prizefor discovering an elementary particle. That particle is the:
a. positron 
b. meson 
c. muon 
d. neutrino 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
36. Neutrinos are a subset of which of the following categories?
a. photons 
b. leptons 
c. mesons 
d. baryons 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
37. A flywheel rotating at 5 revolutions per second is brought to rest bya constant torque in 10 seconds. How many revolutions does the flywheel make while coming toa stop?
a. 25 
b. 50 
c. 75 
d. 100 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
38. A wooden board 2 meters long, 30 centimeters wide and 4centimeters thick floats in water with 1 centimeter of its thickness above the surface. The mass ofthe board is:
a. 1.8 kilograms 
b. 18 kilograms 
c. 24 kilograms 
d. 176 kilograms 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
39. The minimum number of forces with unequal magnitudes whosevector sum can equal zero is:
a. 1 
b. 2 
c. 3 
d. 4 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
40. A hiker stands at the bottom of steep hill. The hiker may follow astraight line path to the top of the hill, a distance of 300 feet, or she may follow a zig-zag path tothe top of the hill and walk a distance of 600 feet. The work done by the force of gravity alongthe zig-zag path is how many times the work going along the straight path? Is it:
a. equal 
b. twice 
c. 4 times 
d. 8 times? 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
41. A pendulum is displaced through an arc of 1o. When the pendulumis released, it takes the pendulum 1 second to swing through the 1o arc. How long would it takethe pendulum to swing through a 2o arc? Is it:
a. 1/2 second 
b. 1 second 
c. 2 seconds 
d. 4 seconds 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
42. A perfectly spherical bubble of air is suspended in a tank of water. Abeam of light consisting of parallel rays passes through the bubble. As the light emerges from theopposite side of the bubble the light rays:
a. diverge 
b. converge 
c. are unaffected 
d. none of the above
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
43. An explorer is riding his camel in the desert. Up ahead he sees whatappears to be a pool of water. He can tell if it is a real pool of water or a mirage by putting on hispolarized sun glasses because:
a. the mirage is polarized and reflections from the water are not 
b. reflections from water are polarized while the mirage is not 
c. neither are polarized so one will not be able to discern a difference 
d. both are polarized so one will not be able to discern a difference 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
44. What is the SI unit for pressure?
a. Torr 
b. pounds per square inch 
c. Pascal 
d. Kelvin 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
45. A virtual image always appears:
a. larger than object 
b. inverted 
c. erect 
d. same size as object 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
46. A 50 kilogram ice skater glides across the ice in a straight line at 7meters per second. If she bends down and scoops up a 20 kilogram child standing on the ice,what will be the final speed of the skater and the child?
a. 1 meter per second 
b. 3 meters per second 
c. 5 meters per second 
d. 7 meters per second 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
47. What is the wavelength of red light emitted by a helium-neon laser?
a. 122 nanometers 
b. 633 nanometers 
c. 2.43 picometers 
d. 1.37 micrometers 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
48. Consider a car driving around a circular bend in the road. Which ofthe following CANNOT be constant?
a. velocity of car 
b. speed of car 
c. nonrelativistic mass of car 
d. angular momentum of the car about the center of the circle 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
49. A firecracker is placed in the middle of a cluster of stationary billiardballs. The firecracker-billiard ball system sits on a frictionless surface. As the firecrackerexplodes, the balls scatter. What is the momentum of the SYSTEM after the explosion of thefirecracker?
a. greater than the momentum of the system before the explosion 
b. equal to the combined speed of the balls 
c. equal to the mass of the balls 
d. zero 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
50. The equation, X = A cos(wt + f) (read: X equals A times thecosine of omega t + phi (fee)), can represent an expression for:
a. accelerating due to gravity 
b. uniform straight line motion 
c. dc current 
d. a simple harmonic oscillator 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
51. For a point charge to feel a net force in a homogeneous magneticfield, which one of the following statements is true? The charge must:
a. move parallel to the magnetic lines of flux 
b. have a component of its motion perpendicular to the lines of flux 
c. be stationary 
d. be a positive charge 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
52. According to Gauss' Law, the magnitude of the electric field is zeroeverywhere inside a conductor if:
a. electrostatic equilibrium is achieved 
b. the surface is a metal 
c. the conductor is moving 
d. the conductor is a non-Gaussian surface 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
53. Gauss' law of electricity, Gauss' law of magnetism, Faraday's law ofinduction, and Amperes' law form the basic equations of electromagnetism. This combination iscollectively known as:
a. Coulomb's equations 
b. Volta's equations 
c. Fermi's equations 
d. Maxwell's equations 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
54. The index of refraction can be considered:
a. a ratio of material thickness between substances 
b. a ratio of velocities of light in different materials 
c. a ratio of mass between materials 
d. to have the units of photons 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
55. You are sitting in a frictionless barber chair. The barber decides tohave some fun with you, so he spins the chair. As you spin, you find that you can slow down byextending your arms and legs. You have:
a. decreased your angular momentum 
b. increased your angular momentum 
c. increased your moment of inertia 
d. changed the direction of the momentum vector 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
56. A person sees a lightning bolt in the distance and tries to guess thedistance to the bolt based on the time between the flash and the thunder. What general time spanshould she use?
a. 1 second equals 1 mile 
b. 5 seconds equal 1 mile 
c. 10 seconds equal 1 mile 
d. 20 seconds equal 1 mile 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
57. A piano tuner notices a standing Lissajous (pron: Liss-a-jew) curveon his oscilloscope. The tone being projected is:
a. out of harmony 
b. sharp 
c. resonating 
d. flat 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
58. Photons and gravitons are names associated with a category ofparticles called:
a. mesons 
b. bosons 
c. leptons 
d. baryons 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
59. The Grand Unified Theory of the forces of nature combines three ofthe four forces. Which force is NOT included?
a. gravitational 
b. electromagnetic 
c. weak nuclear 
d. strong nuclear 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
60. Which of the following men was involved with the first controllednuclear reaction?
a. Linus Pauling 
b. Nelson Sartoris 
c. Edward Teller 
d. Enrico Fermi 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
61. If the half-life of a radioisotope is 2 days, after how many days is thequantity reduced to 12.5% of its original amount?
a. 4 days 
b. 6 days 
c. 8 days 
d. 10 days 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
62. Close inspection of a failed metal part reveals artifacts on the fracturesurface commonly referred to as "striations" or "beach marks". This indicates the componentfailed as a result of:
a. Sudden overloading 
b. Cyclical loading 
c. Stress corrosion cracking 
d. None of the above 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
63. The dark lines constituting the absorption spectrum exhibited bysunlight are frequently called:
a. Fresnel lines 
b. Fraunhofer lines 
c. Fermi lines 
d. Franklin lines 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
64. The temperature of a gas measures the:
a. number of calories of heat present 
b. average kinetic energy of the particles in the gas 
c. exact number of particles in the gas 
d. potential energy of the gas 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
65. If two atoms exert equal attractions for electrons, they can form:
a. a nonpolar covalent bond 
b. an ionic bond 
c. a polar covalent bond 
d. no bond 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
66. An element has the following numbers of electrons in its shells:2-8-8-2. Which of the following is true? The element:
a. is a nonmetal 
b. forms an ion with a charge of +2 
c. can accept two electrons 
d. forms a negative ion 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
67. A characteristic of the noble gases is that they all:
a. have eight electrons in the outer shell 
b. have low stability 
c. form many compounds 
d. have filled outer electron shells 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
68. A reduction reaction always involves the:
a. loss of electrons 
b. gain of electrons 
c. addition of oxygen 
d. removal of oxygen 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
69. The photoelectric effect is a demonstration of:
a. the wave nature of light 
b. the particle nature of light 
c. Compton scattering 
d. the continuous spectrum of radiation 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
70. When a solid material is heated, it always:
a. emits a discrete radiation spectrum 
b. glows red 
c. emits a continuous radiation spectrum 
d. emits only visible radiation 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
71. An electron is classified as a:
a. boson 
b. nucleon 
c. fermion 
d. meson 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
72. Laser radiation is:
a. monochromatic 
b. directed in a narrow beam 
c. produced with large power densities 
d. all of the above 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
73. Which of the following implies the greatest precision?
a. 1.02 x 105 
b. 102 x 103 
c. 0.102 x 106 
d. 1.020 x 105 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
74. Which of the following is NOT one of the fundamental quantities inphysics
a. time 
b. length 
c. weight 
d. mass 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
75. A sphere which has half the radius but twice the density of anothersphere has:
a. more mass 
b. less mass 
c. the same mass 
d. the same weight 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
76. What process produces most of the energy that is radiated by theSun?
a. gravitational contraction 
b. chemical combustion 
c. nuclear fusion 
d. nuclear fission 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
77. What is the hydrostatic pressure at the bottom of a pool 6 metersdeep?
a. 60,000 Newtons per meter squared 
b. 6,000 Newtons per meter squared 
c. 600 Newtons per meter squared 
d. 60 Newtons per meter squared 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
78. What is a typical wavelength of an AM radio wave?
a. 3000 meters 
b. 300 meters 
c. 30 meters 
d. 3 meters 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
79. A ball is thrown upwards with an initial velocity of 5 meters persecond. How many seconds will it take to reach maximum height?
a. 0.5 seconds 
b. 1 second 
c. 1.5 seconds 
d. 2 seconds 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
80. Albert Einstein received the Nobel prize in physics for his work on:
a. gravitation 
b. relativity 
c. photoelectric effect 
d. Brownian motion 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
81. A typical microwave oven produces microwave radiation with awavelength of:
a. 3 meters 
b. 3 x 10-2 meters (read: 3 times 10 to the minus 2 meters) 
c. 3 x 10 -6 meters (read: 3 times 10 to the minus 6 meters) 
d. 3 x 10-9 meters (read: 3 times 10 to the minus 9 meters) 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
82. An ELECTRON moving horizontally along the +x axis enters aregion of space with a horizontal uniform magnetic field pointing in the +y direction. Theelectron will be deflected:
a. -y direction 
b. +y direction 
c. -z direction 
d. +z direction 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
83. Entropy is a measure of:
a. magnetization 
b. disorder 
c. temperature 
d. heat 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
84. The magnetic field produced by a long straight wire carrying acurrent points:
a. in the direction of the current 
b. toward the wire 
c. away from the wire 
d. circles around the wire 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
85. What is the molecular mass of a gas that effuses through a small holeat twice the rate as oxygen gas at the same temperature. (The molecular mass of O2 is 32.)
a. 8.0 atomic mass units 
b. 16 atomic mass units 
c. 48 atomic mass units 
d. 64 atomic mass units 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
86. Liquid "X" is at equilibrium with its vapor in a cylinder and pistonapparatus. When the volume of the space above the liquid is 50 ml and the temperature 25!, thevapor pressure of "X" is 120 torr. What will the vapor pressure of "X" be when the volumeabove the liquid is 100 ml and the temperature 25!C? Some liquid is always present.
a. 30 torr 
b. 60 torr 
c. 120 torr 
d. 240 torr 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
87. Mickey is fishing from his row boat at his favorite spot in the lake.He has a large rock in the bottom of the boat for stability and ballast. Mickey decides to call itquits. To lighten his load, he tosses the rock overboard before rowing to shore. Does the waterlevel of the lake:
a. go up 
b. go down 
c. remain the same 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
88. An electrical discharge ionizing the air around a conductor is called:
a. Flux 
b. Corona 
c. Ozone 
d. Field 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
89. The speed of sound (at sea level) in air is:
a. 340 meters per second 
b. 400 meters per second 
c. 500 meters per second 
d. 760 kilometers per second 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
90. How many molecules are present in 2.5 liters of gas at STP?
a. 5.6 x 1024 molecules 
b. 1.5 x 1024 molecules 
c. 6.0 x 1023 molecules 
d. 6.7 x 1022 molecules 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
91. If 64Cu emits a beta particle, what would the product be?
a. 63Cu 
b. 64Cu+1 
c. 64Cu-1 
d. 64Zn 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
92. Magnifying glasses are useful, because they create an enlarged:
a. virtual image behind the actual object. 
b. real image behind the actual object. 
c. virtual image in front of the actual object. 
d. real image in front of the actual object. 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
93. Which pot of water will boil LAST when all are heated by the samesource
a. aluminum pot 
b. iron pot 
c. brass pot 
d. titanium pot 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
94. How many atoms per unit cell are in a face-centered-cubic crystal?
a. two 
b. four 
c. six 
d. eight 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
95. Refractory metals are known for which of the following properties:
a. lack of chemical reactivity 
b. low density 
c. high melting point 
d. high thermal conductivity 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
96. A small hole in a sheet of aluminum foil is used to diffract yellowlight both under water and in a vacuum. Which is true?
a. light diffracts less in the water because its wavelength is larger. 
b. light diffracts less in the water because its wavelength is smaller. 
c. light diffracts more in the water because its wavelength is larger. 
d. light diffracts more in the water because its wavelength is smaller. 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
97. A 20 ohm resistor and a 60 ohm resistor are connected in parallel toa voltage source. If the current in the 60 ohm resistor is one ampere, the current in the 20 ohmresistor will be:
a. 1/3 ampere 
b. 2/3 ampere 
c. 1 ampere 
d. 3 amperes 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
98. An LED is operated on a 12 volt automobile circuit. The voltagedrop across the LED is 2 volts and the current must be limited to 50 milliamps to prevent itsoverheating and destruction. What size resistor must be used?
a. 60 ohms 
b. 100 ohms 
c. 120 ohms 
d. 200 ohms 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
99. Which is NOT a characteristic of a series circuit?
a. The current is the same throughout. 
b. The total resistance is the sum of the individual resistance. 
c. The voltage of the source equals the sum of the circuit's individual voltage drops. 
d. The total resistance is the sum of the reciprocals of the individual resistances. 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
100. If the distance between the centers of mass of two bodies is doubled,the gravitational force between the bodies will become what portion of the original force:
a. double 
b. one half 
c. remain the same 
d. one quarter 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
101. The Doppler Effect predicts that the spectrum of light from a visiblebody moving AWAY from the Earth will experience a shift in frequency when viewed from Earth.This particular shift is known as the:
a. Blue shift 
b. Neutral shift 
c. Red shift 
d. Dirac shift 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
102. A far-sighted person, without optical correction, is typically able tosee nearby objects more clearly in bright light. The reason for this phenomena is:
a. bright light provides better illumination. 
b. the pupil of the eye narrows which increases the depth of focus. 
c. the pupil of the eye widens which increases the depth of focus. 
d. the bright light causes squinting which flattens the eyeball which tends to correct the 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
103. The first reflecting telescope was built by:
a. Galileo 
b. Copernicus 
c. Tycho Brahe 
d. Isaac Newton 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
104. Ten Coulombs of charge flowing through a wire per second is equalto:
a. 100 Amperes 
b. 10 Ampere 
c. 1 Amperes 
d. 0.1 Amperes 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
105. Magnetic fields are produced by:
a. resistance 
b. an electric potential difference 
c. electric current 
d. stationary charge 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
106. A 10 ohm and a 20 ohm resistor are connected in parallel to acurrent source. What fraction of the current flows through the 20 ohm resistor?
a. 1/2 
b. 1/3 
c. 2/3 
d. 3/4 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
107. One barrel of oil has about the same heat content as how much coal:
a. 70 pounds 
b. 700 pounds 
c. 1,400 pounds 
d. 2,800 pounds 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
108. Two identical resistors are connected in parallel and consume 200watts together. A third identical resistor is added in parallel. The total power consumed is:
a. 100 watts 
b. 200 watts 
c. 300 watts 
d. 400 watts 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
109. The length of both sides of a square parallel plate capacitor aredoubled. The capacitance is:
a. halved 
b. the same 
c. doubled 
d. quadrupled 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
110. A series circuit consists of a two ohm RESISTOR and a one ohmINDUCTOR. The relationship between current and voltage is:
a. current will lag by 30 degrees. 
b. current will lag by 26 degrees. 
c. current will lead by 26 degrees. 
d. current will lead by 30 degrees. 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
111. A transformer has a turns ratio of two to one. If a 100 ohm resistoris connected on the high side, its resistance as measured on the low side would be:
a. 25 ohms 
b. 50 ohms 
c. 100 ohms 
d. 400 ohms 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
112. What is the impedance of a one microfarad capacitor at 60 Hertz:
a. 16,700 ohms 
b. 2,650 ohms 
c. 3.8x10-4 ohms 
d. 6x10-5 ohms 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
113. Which of the following instruments should never have their test leadsconnected directly to a wall outlet:
a. ammeter 
b. voltmeter 
c. oscilloscope 
d. frequency counter 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
114. The speed of light through a single-mode optical fiber isapproximately:
a. c (equal to 3 x 108 m/s) 
b. 70 percent of c 
c. 80 percent of c 
d. 90 percent of c 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
115. The father of the atomic bomb is:
a. Einstein 
b. Oppenheimer 
c. Faraday 
d. Strangelove 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
116. At what point is the temperature the same on the Celsius andFahrenheit scales?
a. Absolute zero 
b. Zero 
c. Negative 40 degrees 
d. Never 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
117. What does the letter "s" stand for in the acronym laser?
a. scientific 
b. simulated 
c. stimulated 
d. solar 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
118. What is the DeBroglie wavelength of a 1,200 kilogram corvettetraveling at a rate of 25 meters per second? Planck's constant is equal to 6.62 x 10-34Joule-seconds.
a. 5.3 x 10-32 meters 
b. 5.9 x 10-34 meters 
c. 2.1 x 10-38 meters 
d. 1.6 x 10-40 meters 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
119. What property of a metal describes the onset of plastic deformationin a tensile test?
a. tensile strength 
b. elongation 
c. yield strength 
d. reduction in area 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
120. It is a very hot day. You are in a special kitchen, in that there are noexits and the walls of this kitchen are thermally very well insulated. If you open the refrigeratordoor, the room will eventually:
a. cool off. 
b. remain the same. 
c. heat up. 
d. none of the above
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
121. Consider two water drops at a temperature T. These drops areNOT allowed to exchange energy with their environment. These two drops collide and combine.How does the temperature of these drops change when they combine? Does it:
a. decrease 
b. remain the same 
c. increase 
d. none of the above
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
122. A space ship traveling toward Mars at 0.6 times the speed of light cshoots an ELECTRON beam at Mars. If the electrons travel at 0.6 c RELATIVE TO THESPACE SHIP, at what speed do the electrons impact the surface of Mars?
a. 0.6 c 
b. 0.88 c 
c. 1.2 c 
d. 1.34 c 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
123. An object dropped from rest near the Earth's surface will fall how farin the first second:
a. 4.9 meters 
b. 9.8 meters 
c. 16.0 meters 
d. 32 meters 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
124. To a person standing on shore, an object dropped from the mast of apassing sailboat will trace what path, assuming negligible air resistance. Is it:
a. vertical straight line 
b. slanted straight line 
c. parabola 
d. hyperbola 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
125. The energy dissipated when a car hits a tree at 70 miles per hour isABOUT how much greater than that dissipated at 50 miles per hour?
a. 20 percent 
b. 40 percent 
c. 70 percent 
d. 100 percent 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
126. What happens to the period of a pendulum if the mass of the bob isquadrupled?
a. it is cut in half 
b. it stays the same 
c. it is doubled 
d. it is quadrupled 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
127. According to the theory of relativity, people who travel at relativisticvelocities and then return home will be:
a. shorter than if they had not made the trip. 
b. taller than if they had not made the trip. 
c. younger than if they had not made the trip. 
d. older than if they had not made the trip. 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
128. Which of the following units of energy is the smallest:
a. calorie 
b. Joule 
c. erg 
d. electron-volt 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
129. Which of the following quantities has the GREATEST influence onthe overall efficiency of a conventional (Rankine cycle) electric generating station burning fossilfuels?
a. steam temperature at the steam turbine inlet 
b. net heating value of the fuel 
c. steam pressure at the steam turbine inlet 
d. pounds of ash and sulfur per pound of fuel 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
130. The index of refraction of a plastic material is 1.5. The speed oflight in this material relative to that in a vacuum is:
a. 2 
b. 1.5 
c. 2/3 
d. 1/2 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
131. Four identical samples of a metal are heated to differenttemperatures. Based on the colors of their incandescences, which sample is the hottest? Thesample that is:
a. blue-white 
b. bright red 
c. yellow 
d. orange 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
132. A 5 kilogram mass is lifted at constant velocity from a shop floor bya rope that passes through a pulley attached to the shop's ceiling. Neglecting the mass of the ropeand friction in the pulley, what is the approximate tension in the rope?
a. 100 newtons 
b. 50 newtons 
c. 25 newtons 
d. 5 newtons 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
133. Ball "A" ROLLS down an inclined plane without slipping. Anidentical ball, Ball "B", SLIDES down the same inclined plane without rolling. Which of thefollowing statements is true?
a. Ball "A" has more kinetic energy 
b. Ball "B" has more kinetic energy 
c. their kinetic energies are the same 
d. their rotational kinetic energies are equal just after release 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
134. What is the wavelength in millimeters of a sound wave whosefrequency is 35 KILOHERTZ. Assume the speed of sound is 350 METERS PER SECOND?
a. 100 millimeters 
b. 1,000 millimeters 
c. 10 millimeters 
d. 1/10 millimeters 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
135. Heat from the sun reaches the Earth by:
a. conduction 
b. convection 
c. radiation 
d. none of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
136. What is a calorie?
a. amount of heat required to raise one gram of water one degree Celsius. 
b. amount of work required to move one gram of water by one centimeter. 
c. amount of heat required to melt ice. 
d. amount of heat required to raise one gram of water one degree Fahrenheit 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
137. The energy of molecular motion in a gas appears in the form of:
a. friction 
b. internal energy 
c. temperature 
d. potential energy 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
138. It has been said that the universe will die an "entropy death". Thismeans that:
a. the universe will eventually explode. 
b. the universe will be at the same temperature everywhere. 
c. the universe will collapse into a black hole. 
d. matter and antimatter will never combine. 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
139. Two coal trains, one southbound, the other westbound, reach anover and under crossing at the same instant and each proceed at 40 kilometers per hour on theirrespective courses. Approximately how far apart are the lead cars two hours later, to the nearestkilometer?
a. 80 
b. 113 
c. 136 
d. 160 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
140. A resistor of value R/2 is connected in parallel with a resistor ofvalue R/3. The voltage drop across the parallel combination is V. The total current supplied bythe voltage source is:
a. 2 V/R (read: 2 V over R) 
b. 3 V/R (read: 3 V over R) 
c. 4 V/R (read: 4 V over R) 
d. 5 V/R (read: 5 V over R) 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
141. The idea that we CANNOT know both the position and velocity of asubatomic particle at the same time was formulated by:
a. Einstein 
b. Heisenberg 
c. Fermi 
d. Schroedinger 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
142. To create an enlarged real image using a concave mirror, the objectmust be placed:
a. beyond the center of curvature. 
b. between the center and the focus. 
c. at the focus. 
d. closer than the focus. 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
143. Which of the following iron core electromagnets creates the greatestamount of magnetic flux:
a. 1,000 coils, 2 amps of current 
b. 250 coils, 7 amps of current 
c. 700 coils, 3 amps of current 
d. none of the above
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
144. A car traveling at a constant velocity of 20 meters per second passesa second car which is initially at rest. The car which was at rest starts accelerating at 10 metersper second squared the instant it is passed by the first car. They will meet again in:
a. 2 seconds 
b. 4 seconds 
c. 6 seconds 
d. 8 seconds 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
145. A projectile is fired into the air at an angle of 23 degrees. At whatother angle would this projectile have the same range if air resistance is neglected?
a. 46 degrees 
b. 60 degrees 
c. 67 degrees 
d. 68 degrees 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
146. At one atmosphere, a cylinder with movable piston contains 2,000milliliters of gas. If the pressure is increased to 5 atmospheres and the temperature remainsunchanged, what is the new volume of the gas?
a. 10,000 milliliters 
b. 400 milliliters 
c. 1,000 milliliters 
d. 4,000 milliliters 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
147. At zero degrees Celsius and one atmosphere (STP), the volume of agas is 1,000 milliliters. If the temperature is increased to 25 degrees Celsius and the pressure isdoubled, what is the new volume of the gas?
a. 546 milliliters 
b. 500 milliliters 
c. 1,000 milliliters 
d. 273 milliliters 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
148. The region of the electromagnetic spectrum immediately above thefrequencies to which the human eye is sensitive is called:
a. ir 
b. ultra-violet 
c. rf 
d. gamma ray 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
149. For which of the following reasons is plutonium-238 used forgenerating electricity on spacecraft?
a. It is an alpha emitter with long half-life. 
b. It is a beta emitter with high specific power. 
c. It occurs abundantly in nature. 
d. It has low specific power. 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
150. Enrichment of uranium by gaseous diffusion relies on the fact thaturanium-235 diffuses through holes in the barriers more readily than uranium-238 does becauseuranium-235 is:
a. a different chemical compound. 
b. a different wavelength. 
c. resistant to magnetism. 
d. slightly lighter than uranium-238. 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
151. Of the following, which non-fissioning element is used in the coolingwater of nuclear power plants to help control the rate of the fission reaction by absorbingneutrons:
a. zirconium 
b. boron 
c. krypton 
d. cesium 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
152. The part of a nuclear power plant that prevents thermal pollution oflakes or rivers is the:
a. reactor 
b. coolant/moderator 
c. cooling tower 
d. control rod 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
153. The form of the fuel in U.S. commercial nuclear power plants iswhich of the following:
a. uranium oxide ceramic pellets 
b. atomic vapor 
c. uranium metal tubes 
d. uranium solution in water 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
154. Which of the following is NEVER used as a coolant in nuclearreactors:
a. liquid nitrogen 
b. liquid sodium 
c. water 
d. helium gas 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
155. In a breeder reactor, new fuel is formed as non-fuel uranium-238absorbs a neutron and ultimately becomes which of the following fissionable atoms:
a. uranium-235 
b. plutonium-239 
c. uranium-239 
d. neptunium-239 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
156. Of the following, which is the best fuel for a nuclear fusion reactor:
a. hydrogen 
b. lithium 
c. deuterium 
d. helium 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
157. In a spent fuel assembly, the radioactive elements having the longesthalf-lives are the:
a. fission products 
b. actinides 
c. activation products 
d. radioisotopes of lead 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
158. Reactors in commercial nuclear power plants in the U.S. are oftenreferred to as thermal reactors. A thermal reactor uses:
a. fissionable plutonium-239 as fuel. 
b. a relatively low heat output. 
c. neutrons moderated to relatively low energies. 
d. liquid sodium as a coolant. 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
159. A fast reactor uses:
a. an extremely short time to get to the maximum operating reactivity. 
b. uranium-235 as fuel. 
c. heavy water as a coolant. 
d. essentially unmoderated neutrons. 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
160. Most of the new atoms formed when atoms in a nuclear reactorcapture neutrons without fissioning are:
a. fission products 
b. activation products 
c. actinides 
d. lead isotopes 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
161. The average annual dose of NATURAL radiation by the averageAmerican is about:
a. 3 millirems 
b. 30 millirems 
c. 300 millirems 
d. 3,000 millirems 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
162. In the fission of U235, what is the average number of neutronsproduced in the fission reaction?
a. 1.5 
b. 2.5 
c. 3.5 
d. 4.5 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
163. Of the following, the most energetic form of NON-IONIZINGradiation is:
a. ultra-violet light 
b. infra-red light 
c. radar 
d. microwaves 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
164. When radiation breaks an electron pair bond in a molecule and eachfragment of the molecule gets one of the bond electrons, the molecular fragments that are formedare called:
a. ions 
b. free radicals 
c. stable molecules 
d. gases 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
165. The ability of an atom to absorb neutrons is its neutron capture crosssection. The unit of measurement for neutron capture cross section is:
a. the nucleus volume 
b. capture capacity 
c. resonance quotient 
d. barn 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
166. In EXTRA-TERRESTRIAL SPACE, heat is transferred by:
a. conduction 
b. convection 
c. conduction and convention 
d. radiation 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
167. The principle that energy may be converted from one form toanother but it cannot be either created or destroyed is:
a. First Law of Thermodynamics. 
b. Second Law of Thermodynamics. 
c. Third Law of Thermodynamics. 
d. Principle of photoelectricity. 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
168. Photoelectric electricity is produced directly from solar energy whenwhich of the following are absorbed in a semiconductor to create an electric current?
a. protons 
b. electrons 
c. neutrons 
d. photons 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
169. A solar cell does NOT respond to red light, but DOES respond togreen light. The solar cell will be able to respond to:
a. microwaves 
b. infra-red light 
c. ultraviolet light 
d. all of the above 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
170. What is the theoretical limit of the efficiency of a single-crystalsingle-junction cell in a photovoltaic system?
a. 9 percent 
b. 29 percent 
c. 79 percent 
d. 99 percent 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
171. A four cycle internal combustion automobile engine operates onwhat kind of cycle?
a. Rankine 
b. Otto 
c. Brayton 
d. Joule 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
172. If materials become superconducting when cooled, any magneticfield will be expelled. This is called:
a. diamagnetism 
b. repulsion 
c. the Landow Effect 
d. the Meissner effect 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
173. A proton and an alpha particle pass through the gap of a strongmagnet. If both particles have the same initial velocity, how many times greater will the defectionof the proton be relative to the deflection of the alpha particle? Will it be:
a. the same 
b. 2 times 
c. 4 times 
d. 8 times 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
174. Planck's constant was first introduced in order to obtain a correcttheoretical prediction of:
a. the distribution of frequencies occurring in black body radiation. 
b. the energy produced by the transformation of mass into energy. 
c. the speed of light. 
d. lifetime of the neutron. 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
175. The theory which ascribes wave-like properties to particles is called:
a. general relativity 
b. quantum mechanics 
c. special relativity 
d. classical mechanics 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
176. The magnitude of the quarks' electric charge is:
a. zero. 
b. greater than the electron's charge. 
c. equal to the electron's charge. 
d. less than the electron's charge. 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
177. Weather satellites transmit cloud cover and temperature-humidityprofiles back to Earth using images of which combination of the electromagnetic radiation types?
a. infra-red and visible light 
b. ultraviolet and nuclear magnetic 
c. ultraviolet and infra-red 
d. ultraviolet and visible light 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
178. An object is located 1 meter in front of a converging lens having afocal length of 20 centimeters. At what distance behind the lens (whose thickness is negligible)will the image be formed?
a. 18 centimeters 
b. 20 centimeters 
c. 22 centimeters 
d. 25 centimeters 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
179. What reflecting surface forms a geometrically perfect image of apoint source located at infinity (such as that approximated by a star)?
a. Paraboloid 
b. Ellipsoid 
c. spherical 
d. Hyperboloid 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
180. The dominant charge carriers in p-type semiconductors are:
a. neutrons 
b. electrons 
c. protons 
d. holes 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
181. Imagine that a 20 mile diameter hole is bored along the diameter ofthe Earth extending from the North Pole to the South Pole, that all air and gases are pumped outof this hole, and that the temperature throughout this hole is maintained at 300 Kelvins. A boythrows a ping pong ball into this hole. The ping pong ball would:
a. fall to the center of the Earth and remain forever suspended there. 
b. fall to the opposite side of the Earth's surface and remain forever suspended there. 
c. forever oscillate in simple harmonic motion along the hole between the loci of the hole 
d. none of the above
d. none of the above. 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
182. An automobile needs an antenna for its radio to play properlybecause:
a. the automobile's tires insulate it from the ground. 
b. the automobile's body acts as a Faraday cage. 
c. when the automobile moves, the velocity of the radio signal appears changed with 
d. none of the above
d. the transmitter also uses an antenna. 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
183. A man picks up a 50 kilogram block and carries it up a flight ofstairs 10 meters high. He then carries the block back down the stairs and places the block in itsoriginal position. What is the NET work done on the block?
a. 1,000 joules 
b. 750 joules 
c. 500 joules 
d. 0 joules 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
184. What is the atomic number of Antimony?
a. 33 
b. 51 
c. 85 
d. 122 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
185. The Superconducting Super Collider will produce collisions with anenergy of:
a. 40 joules 
b. 40 MeV 
c. 40 TeV 
d. 200 TeV 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
186. Superconducting materials are being used in the SuperconductingSuper Collider to:
a. cool the particles. 
b. minimize electrical power consumption. 
c. maximize the acceleration potentials. 
d. provide radiation shielding. 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
187. One of the particles expected to be discovered at theSuperconducting Super Collider is the:
a. Higg's boson. 
b. tau meson. 
c. tachyon. 
d. anti-proton. 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
188. For a parallel connection of light bulbs, which of the followingstatements is correct?
a. The resistance of each light bulb must be the same. 
b. If one goes out they all go out. 
c. Each of the light bulbs operates independently. 
d. none of the above
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
189. Which of the following pair are vector quantities?
a. time and space 
b. force and momentum 
c. energy and time 
d. momentum and mass 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
190. An object with a mass of 5 kilograms is a distance of 5 meters abovethe surface of the earth. If the acceleration due to gravity is 10 meters per second squared, thepotential energy of the object relative to the surface of the earth is:
a. 10 joules 
b. 20 joules 
c. 100 joules 
d. 250 joules 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
191. For a body to be in equilibrium, which of the following conditionsmust exist?
a. no forces may be acting on the body. 
b. the body must be accelerating. 
c. the velocity of the body must be zero. 
d. the sum of the forces acting on the body must be equal to zero. 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
192. Newton's first law is often referred to as which of the following?
a. The law of straight-line motion. 
b. The law of momentum 
c. The law of inertia 
d. F = ma (Spell out M-A) 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
193. The statement, "In regions where fluid velocity is smaller, thepressure is higher, and vice versa", is known as the principle of:
a. Pascal 
b. Bernoulli 
c. Torricelli 
d. Archimedes 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
194. Relative to its period on the earth, is the period of a pendulum on themoon:
a. shorter 
b. longer 
c. remain unchanged 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
195. Two bodies each have a mass 'M'. If the mass of each body isdoubled, the force of attraction between the two bodies is:
a. twice the original force 
b. 1/4 the original force 
c. 4 times the original force 
d. unchanged 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
196. An object in equilibrium always has zero:
a. velocity 
b. momentum 
c. mass 
d. acceleration. 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
197. Which of the following is NOT an SI unit of measure?
a. watt 
b. newton 
c. joule 
d. erg 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
198. A body which is attached to a spring undergoes simple harmonicmotion. The magnitude of the body's acceleration is:
a. constant 
b. proportional to its displacement from its equilibrium position 
c. zero 
d. always increasing. 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
199. If the resultant force acting on a body of constant mass is zero, thebody's acceleration is:
a. increasing 
b. decreasing 
c. always zero 
d. negative. 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
200. The temperature of a gas is held constant while its volume isreduced. The pressure the gas exerts on the walls of its container increases because its molecules:
a. strike the container walls more often 
b. strike the container walls with higher speeds 
c. strike the container walls with greater force 
d. all of the above 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
201. The electric field of a point charge varies:
a. linearly with distance and inversely with charge 
b. linearly with distance and inversely with charge squared 
c. linearly with charge and inversely with distance squared 
d. linearly with charge and inversely with distance 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
202. Three resistors which have different values are connected in series.Which one of the following statements is correct?
a. The potential drop across all three resistors is the same. 
b. The same current passes through all three resistors. 
c. The same power is dissipated by all three resistors. 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
203. A beam of light is incident on a perfectly smooth body of water. Theangle that the REFLECTED ray makes with the normal is:
a. greater than 
b. smaller than 
c. the same as the angle the incident ray makes with the normal. 
d. none of the above
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
204. A beam of light is incident on a large block of glass. The index ofrefraction of the glass is greater than one. Is the wavelength of the light in the glass:
a. longer than 
b. shorter than 
c. the same as the wavelength of the light in the air? 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
205. Which of the following waves is not a transverse wave?
a. a wave traveling on a string 
b. an electromagnetic wave 
c. a sound wave 
d. none of the above
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
206. A real image can be formed by which of the following singlemirrors?
a. a plane mirror 
b. a concave spherical mirror 
c. a convex spherical mirror 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
207. If two different gases have the same volume, temperature, andpressure and behave like ideal gases, they will also be identical in which one of the followingways?
a. average molecular velocity 
b. total mass 
c. total molecular kinetic energy 
d. average momentum per molecule 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
208. As a source of sound approaches a stationary listener, the apparentwavelength:
a. increases 
b. decreases 
c. stays the same. 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
209. The particle nature of light is demonstrated by which of thefollowing?
a. the photoelectric effect 
b. the various colors of light 
c. the speed of light 
d. diffraction. 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
210. A wavelength is commonly measured in which one of the followingunits?
a. radians 
b. angstroms 
c. electron volts 
d. seconds 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
211. Which of the following three nuclear radiations is the mostpenetrating?
a. alpha 
b. beta 
c. gamma 
d. none of the above
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
212. An electrical current in a superconducting ring will theoretically flowunchanged for:
a. several milliseconds 
b. a second 
c. several weeks 
d. forever 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
213. The physicist Chadwick is known for his association with:
a. the alpha particle 
b. the neutron 
c. the cloud chamber 
d. the electron 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
214. A color with a wavelength longer than that of yellow is:
a. red 
b. blue 
c. violet 
d. green 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
215. The knot is a nautical measure of:
a. length 
b. speed 
c. acceleration 
d. displacement 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
216. Assuming constant gravity and no air resistance, the path of acannonball fired from a cannon is:
a. a semi-circle 
b. an ellipse 
c. a parabola 
d. a hyperbola 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
217. As you go up a mountain top, your weight:
a. increases slightly 
b. decreases slightly 
c. remains exactly the same. 
d. none of the above
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
218. The shape of a magnetic field around a long straight currentcarrying wire is:
a. elliptical. 
b. square 
c. varies depending on the magnitude of the current 
d. circular 
ANS: D
TOP: PHYS
219. Of the following answers, which is the frequency closest to middle-Con a piano?
a. 20 
b. 256 
c. 2520 
d. 25200 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
220. The non-relativistic mass of an object
a. must be the same as its weight 
b. depends on where you measure it 
c. does not change with increasing velocity 
d. is greatest at the poles 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
221. A ball is thrown horizontally from the top of a cliff. Assuming no airresistance, the acceleration of the ball while it is in flight is:
a. in the vertical direction only 
b. in the horizontal direction only 
c. in the vertical and horizontal directions 
d. zero. 
ANS: A
TOP: PHYS
222. While traveling in a straight line, a car uniformly changes its speedfrom 50 kilometers per hour to 110 kilometers per hour in 5 seconds. The acceleration of the carduring this time is:
a. 5 kilometers per hour per second 
b. 12 kilometers per hour per second 
c. 50 kilometers per hour per second 
d. 60 kilometers per hour per second 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
223. If there is to be a change in velocity, there MUST be a change in
a. speed only 
b. direction only 
c. either speed or direction 
d. both speed and direction 
ANS: C
TOP: PHYS
224. Susan pushes against a 100 kilogram rock with a force of 5Newtons, but the rock doesn't move. The force the rock exerts on Susan is
a. 0 Newtons 
b. 5 Newtons 
c. 20 Newtons 
d. 100 Newtons 
ANS: B
TOP: PHYS
